---
title: SPD  Software Product Development
slug: 'spd-software-product-development'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

# SPD: Software Product Development

Software Product Development (SPD) is the core curriculum taken by every student. Classes consist of
a blend of technical and general skills that all software engineers and employees must master to be
successful developers and engineers. Courses include SPD classes taken every term which include
designing, coding, and shipping a unique portfolio product., INT (Intensive) sessions which are week
long immersive product development courses offered three times a year, and SWE (Supervised Work
Experience) which is an internship experience taken in the first or second summer.

**SPD 1.1 - Introduction to Product Development (ACS 1910) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers how to build products that people love. Key concepts include understanding user
needs (industry and competitive analysis, user interviews), building iterative prototypes
(wireframes, user journeys, scoping), and doing the work to validate your idea (user testing). This
course also teaches success skills necessary to become a well-rounded product developer, including
using professional communication best practices, building healthy habits, and getting feedback from
industry contacts and peers.

**SPD 1.2 - Agile Development & UX/UI (ACS 1920) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course guides students in building a product using the lean product development methodology.
Students work in pairs and gain practice working through the challenges that arise during
collaboration. This course also layers in lessons related to UI/UX to to help students iteratively
improve the look and feel of their product. Key concepts covered include: information hierarchy,
system state, grid systems, onboarding teardowns, typography and color, digital mockup tools, user
testing. By the end of the term student teams will ship a beautiful product that delights users.

**SPD 1.3 - Team Software Project (ACS 2930) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on the foundational skills of successful engineering teams. Students work in
teams of four to conduct weekly sprints and retrospectives. Topics include: SCRUM planning, meeting
management, delegation, conflict resolution, role ownership, advanced Git & GitHub, Unix Utilities,
performance reviews, basics of organizational psychology and team development. Students utilize all
the skills they've developed in SPD thus far to ship a sophisticated multi-feature software product
that solves a real world problem.

**SPD 1.41 - Engineering Careers: Communication & Interviewing (ACS 2941) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on engineering careers, particularly on how to prepare for technical interviews.
You'll be able to clearly walk an interviewer through your thought process, clearly craft code on a
whiteboard, and check your work to show improvements and drawbacks. You will also hone your resume
and LinkedIn profiles to highlight your most recent accomplishments. You'll use these stunning
upgrades to your resume and portfolio, to connect with industry professionals to hear what their
experience was like while interviewing for companies and beginning their careers.

**SPD 1.5 - Engineering Careers: Management & Leadership (ACS 2951) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on engineering careers, particularly on leadership: coaching, leading people and
organizations. Students will also focus on solving coding challenges and preparing for technical
interviews. Students who perform well in this class will have the option to become peer coaches for
incoming students at the start of the new school year.

**SPD 2.1 - Industry Collaboration Project Part 1 (ACS 3910) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Students team up to work on an ambitious project of their choice or with actual organizations or
other student teams to co-develop software products. This experience simulates many challenges and
opportunities of actual work environments including, managing stakeholders, cross team
collaboration, leading teams, managing up, conflict resolution, advocating for their ideas,
increasing probability of adoption within an organization and users. Key concepts of how to lead and
how to follow, how to manage and how to be managed are taught through role playing, discussion, and
an in depth reading list of both current and classical writings on leadership. For students who
never want a job as a manager to those who want to climb the corporate ladder, the course provides
vital lessons on how teams work and how to make them great.

**SPD 2.2 - Industry Collaboration Project Part 2 (ACS 3920) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Students continue work on their industry collaboration project from last term. Now that their
products are live, teams will work to acquire and retain users using industry practices in growth
marketing. Teams also make data-driven design decisions based off site traffic. This class
experience continues to simulate many challenges and opportunities of actual work environments.

**SPD 2.31 - Testing and Architecture (ACS 4931) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on advanced topics such as debugging, unit testing, refactoring and design
patterns. Students apply these concepts to existing portfolio projects to improve code qualities
such as readability, modularity and extensibility. Topics covered include: debugging techniques,
unit-testing, refactoring techniques, design patterns and navigating massive codebases. By the end
of the course, students have practical knowledge of writing python unit tests, refactoring legacy
code and implementing some design patterns.

**SPD 2.41 - Job Search & Interview Practice (ACS 4941) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course offers structured support for the job search. The course starts with a two day workshop
to build a well organized and focused application. After the workshop, the course covers choosing
the right company, interviewing and negotiation skills. Make School staff work closely with students
throughout the process as well as provide connections to startups and companies in our network
including HR professionals, alumni, friends at YC companies and tech giants, and more. The course
also covers topics one must master to have a successful life as a working professional, such as
personal finance, financial models, using spreadsheets, and the science of habit formation, health
and wellness.

**INT 1.1 - Fall Intensive 1 (ACS 2910) _1 Credit_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Fall Intensive 1 the focus is on design and user testing as well best practices and steps to
build and pitch an original product in a week. The Intensive culminates with each student pitching
their product to their classmates on the last day.

**INT 1.2 - Winter Intensive 1 (ACS 2911) _1 Credit_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Winter Intensive 1 the focus is on UI/UX and delivering a high quality project to be included in
the student portfolio that will be available to employers when hiring. Key concepts include creating
informative project READMEs and pitching to customers. The Intensive culminates with an Open House
where students present their projects in science fair style to the rest of the Make School community
and external guests.

**INT 1.3 - Spring Intensive 1 (ACS 2912) _2 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week and a half of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on
progress, short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and
classmates. In this intensive, students have the flexibility to work on a team or solo and to either
start a new project or build upon an old project. Key concepts include advanced topics in
collaboration and peer feedback. The Spring Intensive ends with a Demo Night in which students pitch
their products to dozens of industry contacts, recruiters, and Make School partners. Students will
be looking for summer internships at this time, and post intensive work days include applying for
internships at companies pitched to during Demo Night.

**INT 2.1 - Fall Intensive 2 (ACS 4910) _1 Credit_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Fall Intensive 2 the focus is on design and user testing. Students will choose an application
they have already built and add a new feature. The Intensive culminates with each student pitching
their product to their classmates on the last day.

**INT 2.2 - Winter Intensive 2 (ACS 4911) _1 Credit_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Winter Intensive 2 the focus is on UI/UX and polishing all existing projects in the student
portfolio that will be available to employers when hiring. Instructional sessions will focus on
delivering a product pitch The Intensive culminates with an Open House where students present their
projects in science fair style to the rest of the Make School community and external guests.

**INT 2.3 - Spring Intensive 2 (ACS 4912) _2 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands-on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week and a half of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on
progress, short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and
classmates. In this intensive, students have the flexibility to work on a team or solo and to either
start a new project or build upon an old project. Key concepts include advanced topics in
collaboration and peer feedback. The Spring Intensive ends with a Demo Night in which students pitch
their products to dozens of industry contacts, recruiters, and Make School partners. Students will
be deep in the hiring process at this time, and post intensive work days include applying for
employment at companies pitched during Demo Night.

**SWE 2.1 - Supervised Work Experience (ACS 4996) _12 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: 9 Technical Credits, Project Advisor Approval_

This course provides valuable learning through an internship at a technology company working as a
software engineer. Students develop an individualized learning plan with bi-monthly goals that are
shared with and approved by their SWE Project Advisor. Students write a reflection of their
experience and learnings at the end of the internship which is reviewed and published in a public
blog post. The SWE course can take place during any 12 week period; but usually students complete
SWE during their first or second summer.
