---
title: MOB  Mobile Development in iOS & Swift
slug: 'mob-mobile-development-in-ios-swift'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

# MOB: Mobile Development in iOS & Swift

Students pursuing the \_Mobile Concentration \_learn the theory and application of the full product
development process for mobile applications. Beginning with Swift programming language and its core
object-oriented programming principles, students then study Appleâ€™s front-end frameworks for
creating interactive applications, first creating single page and then multi-page apps. In upper
division courses, students will learn to synchronize the local and cloud data in their applications,
using the same advanced frameworks used in industry.

**MOB 1.1 - Introduction to Swift (ACS 1410) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: CS 1.0_

This class covers the foundations of the Swift programming language. Students learn key concepts
including variables, constants, conditionals, loops, data types, object oriented principles,
debugging techniques. The learning of these concepts will happen as students build games and simple
apps using Xcode and complete exercises online.

**MOB 1.2 - Introduction to iOS Development in Swift (ACS 2420) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.1_

This course covers mobile application development in iOS using Swift. Students will learn how to
build iOS applications using Apple's UI frameworks and the MVC architecture. There's a focus on
coding layouts to work across multiple screen sizes and learning different approaches on how to
build the UI on app following UI/UX conventions.

**MOB 1.3 - Dynamic iOS Applications (ACS 2430) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1/BEW 1.1_

This course covers the programming concepts needed to create dynamic iOS applications that can
respond to user events and send and receive data from a web service. Key concepts include closures,
callback, delegates, communication patterns and memory management. Students will also learn how to
fetch and parse information by interacting with public APIs with and without authentication. This
course will cover making network requests using native Swift tools, model a networking layer, and
best practices to parse a JSON response.

**MOB 2.1 - Local Persistence in iOS (ACS 3410) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.2_

This course covers techniques to persist data in an iOS app. Students will learn the various options
for saving data locally in iOS and know when to apply them. They will also learn best practices for
storing and retrieving sensitive data and how to work with the iOS File System.

**MOB 2.2 - 2D Mobile Game Development (ACS 3420) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.2_

This course is an introduction to gaming on mobile devices. Students will learn SpriteKit and
important core concepts such as working with sprites, physics, and software patterns relevant to
gaming. By the end of the course students will complete an original game for iOS devices.

**MOB 2.3 - iOS Concurrency & Parallelism (ACS 3430) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3_

This course covers concurrency and parallelism in iOS to optimize programming performance on mobile
devices built with multiple cores. You will learn the foundation of Grand Central Dispatch,
Operations and other tools to build applications that run multiple tasks simultaneously, optimizing
resources.

**MOB 2.4 - Advanced Architectural Patterns in iOS (ACS 4410) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3_

This course introduces design and architectural patterns that will help students build rock solid
iOS apps that are scalable, responsive and flexible. The course also introduces them to programming
paradigms like Functional & Reactive Programming.

**MOB 2.9 - Mobile Technical Seminar (ACS 4490) _3 Credits_**

_Prerequisites: 6 Upper Division Credits in Seminar Concentration, Instructor Approval_

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. Instructor will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.
