# Make School Course Catalog (2020-2021 Academic Year)

## Institutional Information

### Address and Disclosures

#### Address

**Make School**

555 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94102

[www.makeschool.com](www.makeschool.com)

(415) 814-0980

#### APPROVAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

Make School is a private institution currently seeking approval from the Bureau for Private
Postsecondary Education to operate.

#### ANNUAL UPDATES

This catalog is updated as needed, or required, and at least once annually. Make School reserves the
right to make changes to this catalog at its discretion. All parties will be made aware of revisions
in a timely fashion. All modifications are at the approval or request of the respective licensing
and/or accrediting body. All historical versios will be kept on file at the institution and will be
made accessible upon written request. This Catalog, and any student brochures, is provided in hard
copy format to all persons upon request.

#### COMMENTS

1. Any questions a student may have regarding this catalog that have not been satisfactorily
   answered by the institution may be directed to the Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education at
   **1747 N. Market, Suite 225, Sacramento, CA 95834, [www.bppe.ca.gov](http://www.bppe.ca.gov)**,
   **toll-free phone number (888) 370-7589, locally at (916) 574-8900 or by fax at (916) 263-1897.**

2. As a prospective student, you are encouraged to review this catalog prior to signing an
   enrollment agreement. You are also encouraged to review the School Performance Fact Sheet, which
   must be provided to you prior to signing an enrollment agreement.

3. A student or any member of the public may file a complaint about this institution with the Bureau
   for Private Postsecondary Education by calling **(toll-free phone number) (888) 370-7589** or by
   completing a complaint form, which can be obtained on the bureau’s Internet Website
   **[www.bppe.ca.gov](http://www.bppe.ca.gov)**.

#### COURSE LOCATION

Make School offers courses in a residential format. All courses take place at 555 Post Street, San
Francisco, CA 94102. Make School may offer remote course delivery if deemed necessary due to public
health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 global pandemic.

#### BANKRUPTCY PETITION

Make School does not have a pending petition in bankruptcy, is not operating as a debtor in
possession, has not filed a petition within the preceding five years, or has not has a petition in
bankruptcy filed against it within the preceding five years that resulted in reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the United states Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. Sec. 1101 et seq.).

### How to Use This Catalog

Welcome to Make School! We are excited to have you be a part of our community! We have provided this
Course Catalog and Student Handbook to help you during your time at Make School.

The Course Catalog and Student Handbook is designed to be a reference guide for all things related
to your student experience: from classes you might take, to campus activities, to student financial
aid. We’ve done our best to be as comprehensive as possible, and do update the information when
there is a major program change.

How to use this Course Catalog and Student Handbook:

- This should be the first place you go to find information or answers to questions about the
  program.

- Use the links in the table of contents to quickly search and find what you are looking for.

- There is a lot of information provided in this document. Read it carefully and thoroughly to make
  sure you understand the content.

- You are responsible for the information and upholding the policies included in this document. It
  is your responsibility to read and familiarize yourself with the Course Catalog and Student
  Handbook.

- **This guide is designed with you in mind.** Let us know if there is something you don’t
  understand or need clarity on so we can improve the information provided in this document.

For quick access to important information, forms, documents, or other items, the
[Appendix](../helpful-links/general-information) has a list of links to things most commonly used or
asked about by Make School Students. This is a great place to start if you’re not sure what you are
looking for.

### Message from the Dean

We are so excited you are joining our learning community and look forward to guiding you on your
journey to a rewarding career in software engineering.

Learning at Make School is engaging, innovative and inspiring. Our technical instructors are
software engineering professionals who guide you through industry-relevant, project-based
curriculum. You’ll learn by building products that solve real-world problems and thrive in a
close-knit community with like-minded, passionate students from all backgrounds. Success isn't about
where you come from, it's about where you are going. We can’t wait to help you get there.

### Mission Statement

Make School’s mission is to create avenues of upward mobility for students of all backgrounds,
empowering them to contribute to society through science and technology innovation.

We fulfill this mission by serving a majority under-resourced and underrepresented student
population through a Bachelor’s degree program, countering systemic barriers to upward mobility and
preparing them for high-earning careers.

Make School is built on the following values:

- **Students-first** - we put student needs first when making decisions and protect students’
  investment in their education through innovative financing options.

- **Innovation** - we operate using progressive organizational principles, cutting-edge education
  methodologies, and regular experimentation.

- **Relevance** - we develop curriculum and partnerships to ensure the education we provide prepares
  students for productive careers in industry and to be engaged members of civil society.

- **Equity** - we analyze our actions and decisions through the lenses of Justice, Equity,
  Diversity, and Inclusion in order to create a more equitable future for all. We serve students
  traditionally underrepresented in the technology industry.

- **Citizenship** - our students actively engage with their communities and create positive social
  impact. Students work on projects and seek employment to help solve key societal problems.
  Students formalize their ethical frameworks, practice empathy, respect diversity, and reject bias.

- **Personal Growth** - we provide educational resources and mentorship to help students and staff
  develop a growth mindset and achieve personal growth.

- **Transparency** - our policies, practices, planning, offerings, and student outcomes are hosted
  on a public-facing, version-controlled platform. Our affiliations with partners are publicly
  disclosed.

### Program Learning Outcomes

Upon graduation, students will have demonstrated mastery of the following program learning outcomes:

1. **Software Engineering:** Implement innovative software designs using sound development practices
   and state-of-the-art software engineering techniques, methods, and tools.

2. **Computer Science:** Demonstrate mastery over computer science concepts and the classical
   patterns in computer hardware, software, and networking.

3. **Agile Product Development:** Apply the agile product development process to ideate, design,
   ship, and iterate on solutions to real-world problems.

4. **Teamwork & Leadership:** Develop the skills of a leader and team member by understanding the
   theory and practice of effective decision making: consensus, compromise, negotiation, delegation,
   management, communication, and collaboration with people of different backgrounds, cultures and
   skills.

5. **Problem Solving & Lean Startups:** Develop original and critical thinking strategies to find
   solutions to real-world problems across for- and not-for-profit domains of the economy and
   society, e.g. Education, Health, Business, Entertainment, Global Trade, Politics, Charity, etc.

6. **Self Advocacy & Career Development:** Develop the knowledge and skills of advocating and
   promoting oneself in the context of developing a professional career in technology.

7. **Liberal Arts integrated with Professional Education:** Situate and apply professional knowledge
   and skills within a broad base of understanding of multiple disciplines.

### The History of Make School

Make School was founded in 2012, initially as a Summer Academy, to introduce high school and college
students to the potential of using technology to solve problems. The program was designed to be
project-based and collaborative, focused on teaching students to use modern software development
tools and frameworks. The Summer Academy taught thousands of students from around the world how to
build products, and enabled students to earn internships and jobs at top tech companies.

In 2014, Make School began building a new college based on the same principles. In just five short
years, we laid a strong foundation that has aimed to improve the relevance of higher education and
help address the growing student debt crisis. Our alumni have gone on to work at companies like
Google, Facebook, Tesla and dozens of other tech companies, putting our outcomes on par with top
universities. We’re excited to continue evolving over the next five years, actively diversifying the
tech industry, innovating ways to improve the college model, and sharing what we learn with more
institutions of higher education.

### Facilities and Equipment

Make School provides students with a residential-based education experience at the Make School Main
Campus located at 555 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. Located blocks away from Union Square,
Make School may be easily accessed via public transportation.

Make School’s Main Campus is comprised of climate controlled classrooms, lab, meeting/conference
spaces, administrative offices, break rooms and kitchens, onsite reference library, designated quiet
workspaces, a maker space, secure bike parking, and multiple restrooms. Make School provides
students with secure, high speed wireless internet, at no additional cost to students, while on the
main campus.

For instructional purposes, Make School utilizes the following equipment and technology: projectors
and projection screens, white boards, printers, speakers and microphones, as well as high-speed
internet, GitHub, Slack, and laptops.

#### **Laptops**

Every student must have a fully-operating laptop on which to do their work. The minimum laptop
requirements are, as follows:

- An Apple Laptop

- At least 8 MB of Random Access Memory (RAM)

- At least 100 GB of Solid State Drive (SSD) Storage

- A fully-functioning keyboard and screen and a battery that holds a charge

Since purchasing a laptop can be a large financial burden, we can provide advice for how to find an
economical laptop that will serve you well. Some simple tips are:

- **Upgrade:** If you have an older Apple laptop that lacks SSD storage, you can check if your
  laptop is upgradeable with a new SSD storage component and more memory. If so, the most economical
  option is to purchase an SSD storage and RAM, then install them in your laptop.

- **Buy Used:** Many websites, including Craigslist and eBay, offer less expensive used laptop
  options. When buying a computer through a reseller, confirm with the seller that the laptop is
  fully functioning and that the computer is in decent operating condition. It is especially
  important to focus on the battery, charging cables, keyboard, screen, and USB ports.

- **Buy Refurbished:** You can buy a refurbished MacBook Air for approximately $900. If you combine
  this with a financing option, you may only need to pay approx. $75/month for 12 months.

- **Buy with Apple or Retail Financing:** Apple and other retail stores often offer financial
  options to allow you to pay for a computer over 12 months with no interest.

#### **Temporary Laptop Assistance**

We understand how important it is to have a properly functioning laptop in order to be effective at
Make School. Students are responsible for securing a temporary laptop in the event that their
current laptop is inoperable and needs to be repaired. Make School may be able to assist students
with the cost associated with renting a laptop. For more information regarding temporary laptop
assistance, contact [student.affairs@makeschool.com](mailto:student.affairs@makeschool.com).

### Library Services

Make School maintains an online library with a curated list of digital resources for technical
content, social science texts, periodicals, reference materials, databases, and reserves to
supplement student learning. These resources can be accessed online at
[make.sc/library](make.sc/library).

Students who reside in San Francisco may also utilize the **San Francisco Public Library** (SFPL).
The SFPL is an excellent source for supplemental learning materials, with a great system of
reserving books from any library in the SFPL system. Students may also utilize professional
librarian services through SFPL. The Main Library Branch is located at 100 Larkin Street, and is
just a brief walk from the Civic Center BART Station or a 20 minute walk from Make School’s campus.

Students receive training in the use of library resources during orientation in their first week of
classes. As necessary, students receive assignment-specific training from their instructors. Through
our partnership with Dominican University, students are able to access Library liaisons through the
student services webpage ([make.sc/du-self-service](make.sc/du-self-service)). Library liaisons are
subject specialists who provide support for student research by locating and recommending relevant
information and resources. Dominican University also subscribes to numerous online databases
containing scholarly articles, eBooks, newspapers, and many other resources designed to help
students with their research.

## Admissions and Enrollment Information

### Admissions Policy and Procedure

In addition to completing Make School’s application for admission and being provided with Make
School’s course catalog and School Performance Fact Sheet, the Admissions Team requires that the
prospective student:

- Provide a High School diploma or equivalent as verified via official transcript(s) and requisite
  test scores;

- Provide official college or university transcripts for students transferring to Make School;

- Provide Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate Test scores, if applicable (optional);

- Demonstrate evidence of working on teams to solve problems;

- Demonstrate evidence of excellence in learning and problem solving;

- Submit standardized test scores as part of the admissions application (optional);

- Attend a phone interview with an Admissions Officer.

- Complete a short programming challenge, when requested to do so by an Admissions Officer.

Admissions procedures include providing the student brochure to all prospective students, meeting
with an admissions representative to review goals, school policies and procedures, the School
Performance Fact Sheet, catalog, and graduation requirements. Applications are read, reviewed and
recommended for admissions on a rolling basis by the Make School Admissions Team. Applicants are
informed of their admissions decision via electronic communication. Once admitted, students must
complete the Enrollment Agreement Form.

#### Ability-to-Benefit

Make School does not admit ability-to-benefit students.

### Articulation Agreements

Make School has articulation agreements with the following colleges:

- Berkeley City College

- Canada College

- College of Alameda

- College of Marin

- College of San Mateo

- City College of San Francisco

- Diablo Valley College

- Laney College

- Merritt College

- Napa Valley College

- Santa Rosa Junior College

- Skyline College

- Solano Community College

Contact the Office of the Registrar for more information regarding specific articulation agreements.

### Transfer Credits Policy

Make School does not permit students to transfer credits for courses that are part of the program’s
Technical Curriculum, but will grant Science & Letters transfer credit units completed at:

- Degree-granting, regionally accredited, post-secondary two- or four-year institutions;

- Post-secondary institutions which are candidates for WASC accreditation; and

- From College Board-approved prior learning standardized examinations; and

- For courses taken at accredited universities outside of the United States.

Students may transfer credits to meet the Science & Letters requirements only and satisfying up to
36 out of the 124 credit units required for the BACS degree. Students must have earned a passing
grade of "C" or above in their previous coursework for the credit to be successfully transferred to
Make School. Please refer to the full list of
[Transfer Credit Policies](https://dominican.smartcatalogiq.com/2019-2020/Academic-Catalog/Academic-Policies-and-Procedures/Transfer-Credit-Policies)
for Science & Letters requirements for more detail. Transfer credits do not count toward attempted
credits on a student’s transcript, but do count toward credits earned toward the Bachelor of Science
degree. Students are not required to pay a fee or be charged for transferring credits.

Make School students may concurrently enroll to take Science & Letters courses at off-campus
accredited institutions and be granted transfer credit for these courses. The maximum number of
transferable units via concurrent registration is 9 units. Students are required to obtain prior
approval for any coursework they seek to take at another institution, and all other relevant
transfer policies apply to concurrent registration. All authorizations for off-campus registration
must be approved by the Office of the Registrar prior to the student’s concurrent enrollment.

Make School does not grant credit for prior experiential learning or college-level learning
experiences.

#### NOTICE CONCERNING TRANSFERABILITY OF CREDITS AND CREDENTIALS EARNED AT OUR INSTITUTION

The transferability of credits you earn at MAKE SCHOOL is at the complete discretion of an
institution to which you may seek to transfer. Acceptance of the BACHELOR DEGREE you earn in the
BACHELOR OF APPLIED COMPUTER SCIENCE program is also at the complete discretion of an institution to
which you may seek to transfer. If the credits or BACHELOR DEGREE that you earn at this institution
are not accepted at the institution to which you seek to transfer, you may be required to repeat
some or all of your coursework at that institution. For this reason you should make certain that
your attendance at this institution will meet your educational goals. This may include contacting an
institution to which you may seek to transfer after attending MAKE SCHOOL to determine if your
credits or BACHELOR DEGREE will transfer.

### International Students and English Language Services

Make School does not offer visa services to prospective students from other countries or English
language services. Make School does not offer English as a Second Language instruction. All
instruction occurs in English. English language proficiency is documented by:

1. Review of application information; and

2. Make’s School receipt of prior education documentation as stated in the admissions policy.

Foreign Transcript Evaluation

All foreign transcripts and degrees must be evaluated and translated to meet U.S. equivalency. The
following is a sample of foreign transcript and degree evaluators. Make School does not endorse any
evaluators.

- Foreign Consultants: [http://www.foreignconsultants.com/](http://www.foreignconsultants.com/)

- Educational Credential Evaluators: [http://www.ece.org/](http://www.ece.org/)

- Educational Perspectives:
  [http://www.educational-perspectives.org/](http://www.educational-perspectives.org/)

- International Consultants of Delaware: [http://www.icdel.com/](http://www.icdel.com/)

- International Research Foundation, Inc.: [http://www.ierf.org/](http://www.ierf.org/)

- World Education Services: [http://www.wes.org/](http://www.wes.org/)

### Cancellation and Withdrawal Refund Policies

#### Student’s Right to Cancel

Students have the right to cancel their agreement for a program of instruction, without any penalty
or obligations, through attendance at the first class session or the seventh calendar day after
enrollment, whichever is later. Cancellation of their agreement can occur through the date denoted
on their enrollment agreement form.

Cancellation may occur when the student provides a written notice of cancellation at the following
address: 555 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. This can be done by mail or by hand delivery. The
written notice of cancellation, if sent by mail, is effective when deposited in the mail properly
addressed with proper postage.

The written notice of cancellation need not take any particular form and, however expressed, it is
effective if it shows that the student no longer wishes to be bound by the Enrollment Agreement.

If the Enrollment Agreement is cancelled, the school will refund the student any money he/she paid
within 45 days after the notice of cancellation is received.

If the student obtains a loan to pay for this educational program, the students will be responsible
to repay the full amount of the loan plus interest, less the amount of any refund.

If the student is eligible for a loan guarantee by the federal or state government and the student
defaults on the loan, both of the following may occur: 1) The federal or state government or loan
guarantee agency may take action against the student, including applying any income tax refund to
which the person is entitled to reduce the balance owed on the loan. 2) The student may not be
eligible for any other federal student financial aid at another institution or other government
assistance until the loan is repaid. If the student has received federal student financial aid
funds, the student is entitled to a refund of monies not paid from federal student financial aid
program funds.

#### Withdrawal from Make School and Refund Policy

Students may withdraw from the school at any time after the cancellation period (described above)
and receive a pro rata refund if they have completed 80% or less of the scheduled days in the
current payment period in their program through the last day of attendance. If the student has
completed more than 80% of the period of attendance for which the student was charged, the tuition
is considered earned and the student will receive no refund.

For the purpose of determining a refund under this section, a student may be deemed to have
withdrawn from a program of instruction when any of the following occurs:

- The Dean of Make School, as well as the Office of the Registrar, receive notice from the student,
  indicating a desire to withdraw from the program of instruction. The notice must include the
  expected last date of attendance.

- The institution terminates the student’s enrollment for failure to maintain satisfactory progress;
  failure to abide by the rules and regulations of the institution; absences in excess of maximum
  set forth by the institution; and/or failure to meet financial obligations to the School.

For the purpose of determining the amount of the refund, the date of the student’s withdrawal shall
be deemed the last date of recorded attendance. The amount owed equals the daily charge for the
program (total institutional charge, minus non-refundable fees, divided by the number of days in the
period of attendance, multiplied by the number of days scheduled to attend prior to withdrawal). No
refund will be issued to a student who has attended more than 80% of the days in the period of
attendance.

If any portion of the tuition was paid from the proceeds of a loan or third party, the refund shall
be sent to the lender, third party or, if appropriate, to the state or federal agency that
guaranteed or reinsured the loan. Any amount of the refund in excess of the unpaid balance of the
loan shall be first used to repay any student financial aid programs from which the student received
benefits, in proportion to the amount of the benefits received, and any remaining amount shall be
paid to the student. If the student has received federal student financial aid funds, the student is
entitled to a refund of monies not paid from federal student financial aid program funds.

## Academic and Educational Program Information

### Accreditation

Make School is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges Senior College and
University Commission (WASCUC) via its
[incubation policy](https://www.wscuc.org/content/incubation-policy) relationship with Dominican
University of California. As of Spring 2020, Make School will begin pursuing independent
accreditation from WASCU. Until Make School is granted independent accreditation, Make School will
remain in the WASCU approved incubation policy relationship with Domincian University of California
and therefore will continue to be accredited by WSCUC. Upon receiving accreditation, Make School
will end its incubation policy relationship Dominican University of California and will operate as
an independent educational agency.

### Academic Regulations

All of Make School’s Academic Regulations are located in our Course Catalog & Student Handbook
published on makeschool.com. Our Catalog is made publically accessible through our website and does
not require credentials to access its content.

### Academic Freedom

Make School is committed to the open analysis, discussion, and assessment of ideas and values. It
supports the proposition that education involves both analysis and re-evaluation of accepted ideas,
attitudes, and practices of the culture, with the aim of exploring new ways of thinking and acting
and opening new vistas of knowledge. Make School assumes that it is the responsibility of all
faculty to uphold the purposes and aims of the school.

Make School follows the Recommended Institutional Regulations on Academic Freedom Issued by the
American Association of University Professors. All faculty members and students are afforded due
process. Members of the Make School community have the right to petition a grievance and request an
appeal of dismissal or disciplinary action.

### Applicability of Policies & Standards

The Course Catalog & Student Handbook, and all policies and procedures outlined therein are
applicable to all Make School students at all times. Students are responsible for being aware of
these policies and following them. Enrollment at Make School implies acceptance of these policies
and procedures and makes them binding for all students.

This Catalog and its policies and procedures should be interpreted in a manner consistent with the
mission and values of Make School. The Dean (or their designee) will resolve any questions involving
the application or interpretation of these policies, rules, and expectations. In such instances, the
decision of the Dean (or their designee) will be final and binding.

## Academic Policies

### **Academic Calendar**

Term start and end dates, as well as key dates and campus closures within each term, are in the
Academic Calendar: [make.sc/academic-calendar](http://make.sc/academic-calendar). Below is a sample
of a standard semester schedule:

|             FALL SEMESTER             |                        |                 |
| :-----------------------------------: | :--------------------: | :-------------: |
|            TERM 1: 7 Weeks            | FALL INTENSIVE: 1 Week | TERM 2: 7 Weeks |
| SCIENCE and LETTERS CLASSES: 14 Weeks |                        |                 |

### **Academic Honesty & Integrity Policy**

Students are expected to practice academic integrity in all of its forms, including abstaining from
plagiarism, cheating, and other forms of academic misconduct. Make School reserves the right to
determine in any given instance what action constitutes a violation of academic honesty and
integrity.

Plagiarism, defined as the practice of presenting another's work or ideas as one’s own, is an act of
academic dishonesty and is a serious ethical and scholarly violation. Copying text or ideas, whether
verbatim or by paraphrasing from a source without using proper citation, is not accepted at Make
School. Any materials incorporated into your work, regardless of format, must be properly
acknowledged using a citation style appropriate for the discipline of the course.

Though plagiarism may be the most common form, other violations of scholarly integrity also
constitute cheating, including:

- Using or copying information from another student’s code or written work;

- Copying information from another student’s test or using unauthorized materials during an
  examination, whether an in-class or take-home exam;

- Buying, selling, or stealing test questions, answers, or term papers;

- Doing work or taking tests on behalf of another student or submitting work done by another person;

- Falsifying data or laboratory results; and

- Submitting the same work for more than one course without explicit instructor approval.

If an incident of plagiarism or cheating occurs, the instructor will investigate the incident and
consult with the Dean. If the student has been found to have committed an act of academic
dishonesty, an
[Academic Misconduct Report](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeUBN68KkiOyXoynNwBrc89zb5Tr-Z0g0aCpNqbgNzCBm1uGQ/viewform?usp=sf_link)
will be filed and the student will be placed on a
[Participation Improvement Plan (PIP)](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct). A
student who believes they have been wrongly accused of plagiarism or cheating, or that the
instructor’s resolution of the alleged incident is unjust, may file a
[Request for Appeal of Disciplinary Action](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct).

### **Attendance & Participation Policy**

Just like any job, attendance at Make School is required and a key component of your success.
Attendance means being available (either online or on-campus) from 9:30am to 5:30pm PST each
weekday, attending all scheduled sessions including classes, huddles, coaching and school meetings,
and working on homework and group projects when not in a scheduled session. Being available for the
entire school day allows you to learn with your peers, have access to support from TAs, instructors
and others, and is vital to your learning.

Unless otherwise noted, attendance requirements for classes and other scheduled sessions are:

- No more than two unexcused absences ("no call, no show") per term in any scheduled session.

- No more than two excused absences (communicated in advance) per term in any scheduled session.

It is the student’s responsibility to know the attendance policy in each course for which they are
registered, and also to notify their instructor and coach by email or slack immediately when they
know an absence is necessary. A student who is ill for more than one week, or who has a family
emergency, should also contact the [Dean](mailto:anne@makeschool.com) and
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

### **Technology Policy**

While technology is the heart of all we do here, students must make sure their attention is where it
needs to be to optimize their learning. Students should keep phones out of sight and laptops closed
when not in use so they can focus fully and learn at maximum capacity.

### Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA)

The Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) affords you certain rights with respect
to your education records. Your rights include:

- The right to inspect and review your education records within 45 days of requesting access.

- The right to request the amendment of your records, if you believe them to be inaccurate,
  misleading, or otherwise in violation of your privacy rights under FERPA.

- The right to provide written consent before Make School discloses personally identifiable
  information from your records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without
  consent.

- The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by
  the School to comply with the requirements of FERPA:

  Family Policy Compliance Office<br/> U.S. Department of Education<br/> 400 Maryland Avenue<br/> SW
  Washington, DC 20202-8520<br/> 1-800-872-5327

The School has authority under the Act to release "directory information" concerning students.
“Directory information” may include the student’s name, contact information, date and place of
birth, photo, enrollment status, dates of attendance, concentration of study, class level, course
load, degrees and awards received, date(s) of degree(s), participation in officially recognized
activities, and previous educational institutions attended by the student. This authority will only
be exercised when absolutely necessary.

The above-designated information is subject to release by the School at any time unless the School
has received prior written objection from the student specifying information which they do not agree
to be released. If you would like to make such a request, please fill out the
[FERPA Notice & Release Form](make.sc/ferpa-release). This should be completed annually within the
first two weeks of the Fall semester.

Further information on FERPA is available at the US Department of Education FERPA website:
[studentprivacy.ed.gov](http://studentprivacy.ed.gov).

### Academic Standing and Satisfactory Achievement

Students’ satisfactory achievement (progress) and standing in the Bachelor of Science in Applied
Computer Science program is measured by course load, course completion rate, and degree completion
progress. Students receive mid-term reports to assess their ability to complete their courses and
remain in good standing.

#### Degree Completion Progress

In order to stay in good Academic Standing:

- You cannot fail more than 3 courses per academic year.

- If you fail any SPD, INT, or required Technical Course, you must retake _and_ pass that course at
  the next available offering.

- You must have met the following milestones per the bi-annual unit and portfolio guidelines:

  - Year 1, End of Term 2: 17-23 Units completed.

  - Year 1, End of Term 5: 50-60 Units, 2 Portfolio Projects completed, and all foundational courses
    complete.

  - Year 2, End of Term 2: 67-83 Units and 3 Portfolio Projects completed.

  - Year 2, End of Term 5: 106-124 Units, Internship, and 4 Portfolio Projects completed.

#### Course Load

In any given term, you should be taking 4 courses (standard load) from the following categories:

- Software Product Development Core (SPD, INT, SWE),

- Technical Courses as determined by your concentration, and

- Science & Letters (S&L)

To be in good Academic Standing, you must register for at least 12 credits with the following course
requirements per term:

- Fall & Spring Terms (Terms 1 - 4): 1 SPD Course, 2 Technical Courses, 1-2 S&L Course(s)

- Intensives (INT): Offered in the Fall, Winter, and Spring of the 1st and 2nd year of study.

- Summer Term **with** Internship: Internship (SWE), 1 S&L Course

- Summer Term **without** Internship (alternate to Internship Summer): SPD 1.5, 1 -2 Technical
  Course(s), 1-2 S&L Course(s)

#### Non-Standard Course Load

If you want to register for a course load of more or less than 4 courses, or otherwise differentiate
from the above requirements in any term, you must meet with your academic advisor and complete the
[Non-Standard Academic Course Load Form](make.sc/non-standard-course-load). Submitting this form
means you are aware that not taking the required courses may impact your potential career
opportunities, degree progress, and ISA payback plan. It is not possible to defer any SPD, Intensive
(INT) or Internship (SWE) requirement.

If you choose to take a less than full-time course load or do not follow your degree plan, you may
be required to spend extra time at Make School to ensure that all degree requirements are completed.

#### Failure to Maintain Good Academic Standing or Achievement

If a student does not stay in good Academic Standing or are at risk of failing to maintain good
Academic Standing, they may be placed on a
[Participation Improvement Plan (PIP)](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct). If
a student is unable to stay in Good Academic Standing or fail to complete a PIP, they may be asked
to leave Make School.

#### Mid-Term Reporting Policy

Your academic progress is reported by your instructors during every mid-term period. If you fall
behind, they will be notified and given additional support.

### Course Credit Hours

A credit hour is an amount of work represented in intended learning outcomes and verified by
evidence of student achievement. The amount of work required for a credit is calculated in one of
the following ways:

- One credit hour equates to 12.5 hours of direct instruction (either in-class hours with an
  instructor or supported project hours with an instructor, teaching assistant or industry expert)
  and 25 hours of out of class student work per term. In-class hours are based on a 50 min class per
  credit hour allowing for breaks and transition between classes.

- One credit hour equates to 37.5 hours of student work per term for other academic activities as
  established by the institution including laboratory work, internships, practicum, studio work,
  community-based learning, and other academic work leading to the award of credit hours.

The number of hours per week required for a credit is calculated from the total credits and the term
length. For a typical 3-credit hour course in a 7 week term, the 37.5 total hours of direct
instruction equates to 5.5 hours a week of direct instruction. In addition, homework and other
out-of-class work constitutes 75 hours total or 10.7 hours per week.

Technology-enhanced, Hybrid, or Online Courses: Courses offered through these modalities are to be
delivered so that the sum of faculty instruction and student preparation time is equivalent to the
relevant credit hour calculations above. The table below summarizes course credit hours for all
course types at Make School.

| Course                 | Units   | Length      | Total Hours | Hours / Wk | In-Class <br />Hrs / Wk | Project Hrs / Wk | Lab Hrs / Wk |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Technical              | 3       | 7 wks       | 37.5        | 5.5        | 4                       | 1.5              | -            |
| INT 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.2 | 1       | 1 wk        | 37.5        | 37.5       | -                       | -                | 37.5         |
| INT 1.3, 2.3           | 2       | 2 wks       | 75          | 37.5       | -                       | -                | 37.5         |
| SWE                    | 10 -12  | 10 - 12 wks | 400 - 480   | 40         | -                       | -                | 40           |
| S&L Course             | 4       | 14 wks      | 50          | 3.5        | 3.5                     | -                | -            |
| S&L Course+Lab         | 4 (3+1) | 14 wks      | 75          | 5.5        | 2.75                    | -                | 2.75         |

#### **Periodic Review of Course Credit Hours**

Application of the Credit Hour Policy will be reviewed during the Academic Program Review process to
ensure that credit hour assignments are accurate, reliable, and appropriate to degree level.
Supporting evidence includes syllabi, learning outcomes, assignment schedules, and course schedules
identifying the times that courses meet (if applicable).

New courses, or changes in the unit value of existing courses, should be reviewed and approved by
the faculty curriculum committee for compliance with the credit hour policy.

### Course Modalities

Courses at Make School are offered in either in-person, online synchronous, online asynchronous or
hybrid modalities.

#### In-person delivery

In-person classes are taught on our campus and students are expected to be in attendance for the
entire class time. Class time includes many opportunities for active learning, group work, 1:1
instruction and guidance from the instructor or TA as well as traditional lecture format.

**NOTE: For 2020 Fall Term (and if necessary ongoing) all in-person classes will adhere to state and
local guidelines for COVID-19 including those limiting public gatherings. This may impact the amount
of in-person delivery available.**

#### Online delivery

Synchronous online classes meet online for the same scheduled time as an in-person class in
compliance with credit hour policies. Class structure is similar to that of an in-person class with
the same key elements of lecture, active learning, group work and individual support time. In
asynchronous online classes, the lecture portion is presented over video and students work
independently with limited or no scheduled meeting times. There is still ample opportunity for
support from instructors via asynchronous modes such as slack, email or 1:1 online sessions.

#### Hybrid delivery

Hybrid classes are a mixture of in-person and online components. The online component can be
synchronous or asynchronous as defined above. The in-person time is primarily used for active
learning and group work where the learning experience benefits from the in-person element. Students
are expected to attend both online and in-person components.

**NOTE: For 2020 Fall Term (and if necessary ongoing) all in-person components of hybrid classes
will adhere to state and local guidelines for COVID-19 including those limiting public gatherings.
This may impact the amount of in-person delivery available.**

### Enrollment Status

Students are required to be registered for 12 or more units to be considered enrolled *full-time *in
the Fall, Spring, or Summer semesters. For the purposes of Financial Aid (including loan deferments)
and enrollment reporting, Make School defines enrollment status as:

Full Time: 12 or more units

Three-Quarter Time: 9 - 11.9 units

Half Time: 6 - 8.9 units

Less than Half Time: 0 - 5.9 units

For further information regarding how enrollment status affects you, or to get help regarding
submitting a deferment request, contact the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

#### Student Status Changes

Here’s how students graduate with a Bachelor of Science degree from Make School, and what they need
to do should life’s challenges require them to take a Leave of Absence or Withdraw from the program.

##### Leave of Absence (LoA)

_Students must first meet\*\* with their academic advisor or coach before taking a Leave of Absence
or Withdrawing from the Program, as they may be able to address any blockers that are having an
impact on your life at Make School._

You may need to take a temporary Leave of Absence (LoA) from Make School for personal or
professional reasons. To take a LoA, you must submit a Leave of Absence Request form by the term
withdrawal deadline as indicated in the [Academic Calendar](http://make.sc/academic-calendar).
Requests after that must be submitted to the Dean for further review. You can take a maximum of two
terms of leave during your enrollment at Make School.

Important things to consider when going on a LoA:

- Taking a leave of absence may have an impact on your financial aid eligibility. Students planning
  to go on leave are encouraged to make an appointment with a Financial Aid Office prior to
  initiating the process.

  - If/when a student takes a leave of absence after the semester/term begins, we may be required to
    return a student’s federal financial aid back to the U.S. Department of Education as per Return
    to Title IV (R2T4) regulations within 30 days of the student taking a leave of absence.

- Make School housing is still available to you during your leave. You must maintain your lease and
  continue paying rent during this period. If you opt out of Make School housing, you must terminate
  their lease according to their Housing Agreement

- You can take a maximum of two, term-long Leaves of Absence, consecutively or non-consecutively.
  Extending a consecutive LoA through a second term requires an additional written request.

- If you withdraw after the add/drop deadline of a term, all courses in which you are registered
  will be assigned a "W" grade.

To return from a LoA, students must submit a request to the
[Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com)[ ](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com)for the
Re-enrollment form. Upon returning, students will rejoin Make School with the same academic standing
as when they requested the LoA, and will be subject to the same requirements and guidelines.

If a student does not intend to return to the college, they must officially Withdraw. If you do not
return or extend their LoA, and do not communicate intentions to do so, students will be
automatically withdrawn.

##### Withdrawal from Make School

Withdrawal is when you plan to leave and do not intend to return to Make School. Students will meet
with their coach and/or the Dean prior to submitting an official request. This request must be sent
via completion of the Application for Withdrawal form.

Students who have been academically dismissed from the college are automatically withdrawn and do
not need to submit a written withdrawal request.

Important things to consider when pursuing withdrawal from Make School:

- Withdrawing from the program may have an impact on your financial aid eligibility. Students
  planning to withdraw are encouraged to make an appointment with a Financial Aid Office prior to
  initiating the process.

  - If/when a student withdraws after the semester/term begins, we may be required to return a
    student’s federal financial aid back to the U.S. Department of Education as per Return to Title
    IV (R2T4) regulations within 30 days of the student taking a withdrawal.

- If you live in Make School Housing, you must vacate your room and terminate your lease according
  to the Housing Agreement.

- If you withdraw after the add/drop deadline of a term, all courses in which you are registered
  will be assigned a "W" grade.

In order to re-enroll after withdrawing, you must submit a written request to the
[Dean](mailto:anne@makeschool.com) and the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com), and submit official transcripts for any
coursework completed off-campus while withdrawn. If you return, you will rejoin Make School with the
same academic standing as when you withdrew, and will be subject to the same requirements and
guidelines.

_Students who were academically dismissed from the college must apply for reinstatement, via the
standard admission processes, in order to be considered._

### Grading System

Make School uses a Pass-Fail grading system which emphasizes the importance of mastery and retention
of course material. Rubrics and other assessment tools are used to gain a clear understanding of
students’ strengths and challenges, and provide an accurate representation of students’ performance
level and knowledge.

While a grade of Pass in a class equates to a C or better on a standard grading scale, Make School
does not compute or report a Grade Point Average (GPA). If students need academic performance
information (i.e. GPA) for the purpose and internship or graduate school application, a narrative of
their progress through the program is available upon request.

Repeated Courses

You may repeat courses in which you earned a failing grade (F). While there is no limit to the
number of times you may repeat a degree requirement, you may only repeat a technical elective course
up to two (2) times. All grades from repeated courses remain on your academic record.

### Credit Policies

Make School’s [transfer policy](../admissions-and-enrollment-information/transfer-credits-policy) is
administered and updated by the Office of the Registrar under the direction of the Dean.

#### Technical and Software Product Development Credits

Make School does not accept any transfer, concurrent, or prior learning credits for Technical or
Software Product Development courses as these courses are only taught onsite with our project based
curriculum.

#### Science & Letters Credits

These credit requirements can be met through onsite courses and the following methods:

**Transfering Credits:** Make School will grant Science & Letters transfer credit units completed
at:

- degree-granting, regionally accredited, post-secondary two- or four-year institutions;

- post-secondary institutions which are candidates for WASC accreditation; and

- from College Board-approved prior learning standardized examinations; and

- for courses taken at accredited universities outside of the United States.

Please note transfer credits do not count toward ‘attempted’ credits on your transcript, but do
count toward credits earned toward the Bachelor of Science degree.

**Concurrent / "Off-Campus" Registration:** You may take Science & Letters classes at an off-campus
accredited institution while attending classes at Make School and be granted transfer credit for
these courses. The maximum number of transferable units via concurrent registration is 9 units. You
are required to obtain pre approval for any coursework you want to take at another institution, and
all other relevant
[transfer policies](../admissions-and-enrollment-information/transfer-credits-policy) apply to
concurrent registration. To obtain prior approval for concurrent registration, please contact the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

## Academic Procedures

### Documentation Requests

#### Transcripts

To request an official transcript, students must visit the
[National Student Clearinghouse](http://www.studentclearinghouse.org/) website. If you encounter
difficulty or have any questions, please contact the Clearinghouse directly by telephone at (703)
742-4200 or by email at
[transcripts@studentclearinghouse.org](mailto:transcripts@studentclearinghouse.org).

#### Verification of Enrollment & Degrees

To request an enrollment verification for loan deferment purposes, contact the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com) for further information. Please note
processing time for these requests is 5-10 business days.

#### Grade Change Petition

To request a grade change, you should complete the
[Grade Change Petition](http://make.sc/grade-change-petition). This petition should be used only
when requesting a reevaluation of a given grade, and should not be used to request an Incomplete
grade. For information on the status of a grade change petition, please email the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

#### Incomplete Grade Request

An Incomplete grade means the required work for the course is not yet finished due to extraordinary
circumstances (e.g., illness or very serious personal reasons) beyond your control, and only under
the following circumstances:

- when a limited amount, normally less than 25%, of the student’s work is incomplete;

- when the student is otherwise earning a passing grade;

- when attendance has been satisfactory through the term; and

- when required work may reasonably be completed in an agreed-upon time frame of less than one
  additional semester.

To request an Incomplete grade, you must complete the
[Incomplete Grade Request Form](make.sc/incomplete-grade-request-form). This must be completed
before the end of the term or semester in which they would like to request an "I" grade. You will
receive an email regarding approval of the Incomplete Grade Contract within five business days of
its submission.

Approval by your instructor(s) and the Dean will enter you into an Incomplete Grade Contract. This
contract temporarily places an "I" grade on your transcript, indicating they are expected to
complete all indicated coursework by the last day of the following term. If the coursework is
completed by the deadline, the Instructor will submit a Grade Change Request form to change the "I"
grade to either "P" for "Passing" or "F" for "Failing." Should this coursework not be completed at
that time, this grade will change to "F" or "Failing."

### Registration

Many courses are only offered in one term during the academic year, which requires taking them in a
specific sequence to stay on track to earn a degree. Students should consult with their academic
advisor before registering for courses. All registration requests are submitted through the Course
Enrollment Portal and must be approved before students will be enrolled in courses.

First time students will register during orientation after taking diagnostic exams. Returning
students generally begin registering two weeks before the start of each term; specific dates will be
announced to the student body via email.

#### Add/Drop Process

You may request to Add or Drop a course until the Add/Drop deadline (see the
[Academic Calendar](http://make.sc/academic-calendar)) by filling out the
[Add-Drop form ](make.sc/course-add-drop-form)with instructor signature. It is your responsibility
to ensure this process is completed.

#### Auditing a Course vs. "Sitting-In" on a Class

Students in good standing (who are not on a
[Participation Improvement Plan](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct)) may
audit a course with instructor approval, provided that the student: has taken the course previously
and would like to revisit the material; or has an
[Incomplete grade](../academic-procedures/documentation-requests) for the course from the previous
term, and seeks to gain further mastery of the material to complete the course.

Students in good standing, who have not been approved to audit a course, may request to "sit in" on
one class session of a course. After being granted approval, the student must coordinate with the
instructor regarding which particular session(s) they will join.

#### Concurrent Registration

Make School students may concurrently enroll to take Science & Letters or Foreign Language courses
at off-campus accredited institutions and be granted transfer credit for these courses. The maximum
number of transferable units via concurrent registration is 9 units. However, due to unit
requirements, seniors with 36 or less units remaining will only be approved for concurrent
enrollment in off-campus courses for a maximum of 8 units.

Students are required to obtain prior approval for any coursework they seek to take at another
institution, and all other relevant transfer policies apply to concurrent registration. All
authorizations for off-campus registration must be approved by the Make School Registrar Office
prior to the student’s concurrent enrollment. Students must pass the course in order to receive
credit. Make School will reimburse students who pass their class and receive credit. See step 6 for
more information (below).

#### Process

1. Review the Make School
   [Articulation Agreements](../admissions-and-enrollment-information/articulation-agreements) to
   see which classes have been pre-approved for credit at local colleges. You should also make sure
   the course is offered during the desired term as not all pre-approved classes will be offered at
   all times during the academic year. You are welcome to find classes on your own and submit for
   approval, but there is no guarantee that classes not on the articulation agreement list will be
   approved.

2. Complete the
   [Authorization to Take Course(s) Off-Campus Form](https://make.sc/off-campus-courses) **_prior_**
   to enrollment in the course. This will help you avoid unnecessary fees and enrollment steps, etc.

   1. Complete the form. Incomplete forms will not be accepted for approval.

   2. Submit the form to [registrar@makeschool.com](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

3. Once approved, register in the course as soon as possible to ensure you are able to get into the
   approved class as courses do fill up quickly. Registering as an auditor or "sitting in" means you
   will not receive a grade or transcript credit for the course.

   3. Note: Unless already admitted, you will need to apply for admission to the College in order to
      enroll in the approved course. Admissions is free or fees can be waived at most community
      colleges in the Bay Area.

   4. Save your documentation of course enrollment.

4. Take and pass the class.

5. Submit proof of passing the class (transcript) to the Registrar at
   [registrar@makeschool.com](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com)

6. To request reimbursement for the course, submit the
   [Off-Campus Registration Reimbursement Form](make.sc/off-campus-course-reimbursement). In
   completing the form, you will need to submit proof of passing the class and invoices and/or
   receipts of your expenditures. Make School will reimburse up-to $500 in tuition, transportation
   costs, and course materials.

#### Withdrawing from a Course

With prior approval from the student’s coach or advisor, students may request to Withdraw from a
course with a "W" grade until the Withdrawal deadline. To do this, you must complete an
[Add/Drop Form](http://make.sc/course-add-drop-form) and meet with your coach for approval. Once
your coach has signed the form in the Advisor field, located at the top of the form, you must then
submit it to the[ Registrar.](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com)

### Retention of Student Records

Make School maintains electronic records of the name, address, email address, and telephone number
of each student who is enrolled in an educational program. Make School permanently maintains
transcript for each student granted a degree

In addition, Make School maintains data, for a period of not less than five years, all of the
following information:

- The educational programs offered by the institution and the curriculum for each,

- The names and addresses of the members of the institution’s faculty and records of the educational
  qualifications of each member of the faculty, and

- Any other records required to be maintained by this chapter, including, but not limited to,
  records maintained pursuant to Article 16 which includes completion, placement and licensure rates
  as reported on Make School’s School Performance Fact Sheet, as applicable and annual reports as
  submitted to the Bureau.

## Academic Support

### Academic Support Overview

Make School provides academic support to students through coaching, in-class teaching assistants,
and an open plan workspace that encourages students to help each other through academic challenges.

You can access academic support in three ways: through the development of coach-coachee
relationships, in-class teaching assistants, and an open plan workspace that encourages students to
help each other through academic challenges. If you are uncertain where to go for academic support,
your coach should be your first point of contact!

### Career & Internship Services

The Outcomes Team will help you achieve your career goals and promote lifelong professional
development. Some career and internship services we offer include: exploring career options in a
student’s chosen concentration; finding an internship; preparing a professional resume and
portfolio; preparing for interviews; strategizing the job search; and networking opportunities to
connect to peers and industry professionals.

### Coaching

Countless innovators have coaches. You and your coach will meet throughout your time at Make School.
Your coach’s sole purpose is to support you. Their job is not to tell you what to do, but to let you
lead the session, help you strategize flawlessly for yourself, tease out what you want and need, and
tap into your talents and the resources available to you. We believe that you have everything you
need to be successful: work ethic, creativity, drive. Your coach is here to be your advocate and
thought partner.

### Teaching Assistants

Teaching Assistants are students who have taken the course before and can support you in debugging,
working through code issues and learning the core concepts of the class. Teaching Assistants are
chosen by the course instructor on a term by term basis.

### Disability Services

Make School is committed to providing effective, reasonable accommodations to qualified students
with disabilities in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA). In compliance with these regulations, it is the policy of the college
to provide an educational environment that is free from all forms of discrimination, including
discrimination based on disability in the administration of its policies and programs.

To qualify as having a disability at Make School, the student must have a physical, sensory,
learning, or psychological impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities,
and must also be able to provide documentation of such impairment. While students with temporary
illnesses, injuries, or conditions are not considered disabled under these laws, Make School will
make appropriate adjustments and assist them with available resources.

Once admitted to Make School, you are responsible for requesting accommodations for a disability via
the [Disability Services Intake Form](make.sc/ada-intake-form). You will meet with Make School
staff, and through advising and support, we will ensure accommodations are provided to remove
competitive disadvantages, enabling you to realize their academic potential and objectives.

Make School prohibits discrimination against any individual with a disability, and further prohibits
harassment or retaliation against any individual requesting an accommodation, or any individual who
files a grievance regarding non-compliance with this policy.

Please note that all disability-related information (including documentation, accommodation letters,
correspondence, and consultations) are considered confidential and will be managed in accordance
with The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) regulations. Your information will not be
shared without your expressed, written consent, and all disability-related documentation will be
destroyed within 1-2 years of your graduation from Make School.

## Bachelor of Science in Applied Computer Science

### Program Description

The Bachelor of Science in Applied Computer Science program provides innovative, project based
learning in computer science and software engineering. Our curriculum is continually evaluated and
evolving with current industry standards and constitutes a balance of technical computer science
courses, hands-on software product development, professional identity courses, and
thoughtfully-crafted liberal arts requirements. This program is not designed or intended to lead to
positions in a profession, occupation, trade, or career field requiring licensure in the State of
California.

Students who graduate from this program will be prepared for gainful employment as Software and Web
Developers, Programmers, and Testers (United States Department of Labor Standard Occupational
Classification codes 15-1250 (15-1251, 15-1252, 15-1253, 15-1254, 15-1255)).

**Graduation Requirements:** Students must submit an Application to Graduate with the Registrar’s
Office the _term prior to_ completing their degree, which initiates a final review of degree
candidates' academic records and degree requirements to verify that all are on track to graduate in
the term indicated on their application. Degrees are conferred after the final grade is posted for
the final degree requirements and all requirements have been audited by the Registrar’s Office.

**Degree Conferral:** Make School confers degrees three times per year at the end of the Spring,
Summer and Fall semesters. Degrees will be posted within 60 days of the last day of the semester and
diplomas sent within 90 days.

### Degree and Graduation Requirements

To earn a Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Computer Science, students must complete a total of 124
units, 48 of which must be upper-division, in the areas of Software Product Development, Technical
and Science & Letters.

#### Software Product Development Curriculum:

Select 36 - 47 units (Including 18 - 28 upper division) from courses in the three categories SPD,
INT and SWE as follows:

- **Software Product Development Term Courses (SPD)** are project focused courses where students
  integrate the content from technical courses and learn valuable career skills. These courses are
  offered and must be taken every term.

  - 21 - 27 SPD units (Including 6 - 12 upper division)

- **Intensives (INT)** are one to two week long immersive courses where students work individually
  or on teams to build products. Intensives are offered in between terms three times a year in Fall,
  Winter and Spring

  - 5 - 8 INT units (Including 2 - 4 upper division)

- **Supervised Work Experience (SWE)** is a semester long internship with an industry partner.
  Students must apply for these positions at verified companies and are mentored by the company.
  These are often paid positions.

  - 10 - 12 SWE upper division units

Students must register for SPD and INT courses every term they are active and on campus at Make
School (this does not include students on a Leave of Absence or registered in SWE)

Technical Curriculum

Select 45 units (Including 18 upper-division units)

- **Foundational Curriculum: 15 Units** All students must take three 3-unit courses (9 units total)
  in Computer Science: CS 1.0, CS 1.1, and CS 1.2, and two 3-unit courses (6 units) in Full Stack
  Web: WEB 1.0 and WEB 1.1.

- **Concentration Curriculum: 15-18 Units (Including 9 Upper-Division).** Students will either
  choose one of the four concentrations: Back End Web (BEW), Front End Web (FEW), Mobile (MOB), Data
  Science (DS), or can choose not to have a concentration. BEW, FEW, and MOB concentrations require
  six (6) concentration-specific courses to satisfy the degree requirement. The DS concentration
  requires five (5) concentration-specific courses to satisfy the degree requirement.

      * Back End Web Concentration Courses: 18 Units.

  BEW 1.2, BEW 1.3, BEW 2.1 - 2.5, and BEW 2.9 are all 3-unit courses.

      * Front End Web Concentration Courses: 18 Units.

  FEW 1.2 - 1.3, FEW 2.1 - 2.6, and FEW 2.9 are all 3-unit courses.

      * Mobile Concentration Courses: 18 Units.

  MOB 1.1 - 1.3, MOB 2.1 - 2.4, and MOB 2.9 are all 3-unit courses.

      * Data Science Concentration Courses: 15 Units.

  DS 1.1, DS 2.1 - 2.4, and DS 2.9 are all 3-unit courses.

- **Electives: 12+ Units.** Electives are chosen in addition to foundational and concentration
  courses to bring the total technical course units to 45 units (18 upper-division). Electives
  include

      * any of the concentration courses

      * additional Computer Science courses: CS 1.3, CS 2.1, CS 2.2,

      * Entrepreneur courses: ENT 1.1, ENT 2.1.

      * Supervised Intensive Study (SUP 2.1) and Supervised Intensive Project (SUP 2.2): These courses are available to seniors and provide the opportunity to explore and practice a wide variety of skills learned across the curriculum. To register for these courses, the student must find a Supervisor (instructor or staff) who will oversee their progress and complete the [SUP Contract Template. ](http://make.sc/SUP-contract)

      * Advanced Technical Seminar:  Back End Web (BEW 2.9), Front End Web (FEW 2.9), Mobile (MOB 2.9), and Data Science (DS 2.9).  These courses cover advanced topics not offered within our standard curriculum.  Students can indicate topics of interest by filling out the [Technical Seminar Registration Request Form](http://make.sc/technical-seminar-request) at least two months in advance of a desired course (e.g., request in Term 3 to take the course in Term 5).

Science & Letters Curriculum

36 Units (Including 8 Upper-Division)

Nine 4-unit Science & Letters courses, covering a broad spectrum of learning, are required for all
students. Requirements include:

- EC 1000: Effective Communication 1,

- EC 2000: Effective Communication 2,

- CKE 1000: Civic Knowledge & Engagement,

- QL 1.1: Quantitative Literacy & Social Issues,

- ACE 1000: Artistic & Creative Expression,

- SCI 1000: Science for Global Citizens,

- EL 1000: An Examined Life,

- SSHB 1000: Social Sciences: Understanding Human Behavior, and

- PM 1000: Purpose & Meaning.

General Graduation Requirements

In order to graduate from Make School with a bachelor’s degree, students must also meet the
requirements in the following categories:

- [Unit and Residency Requirements ](https://dominican.smartcatalogiq.com/2019-2020/Academic-Catalog/Undergraduate-Education-General-Degree-Admissions-Information/Undergraduate-Education-General-Degree-Information/General-Requirements-for-a-Baccalaureate-Degree):
  Students must complete a minimum of 124 units, 48 of which must be in upper division courses.

  - At least 28 units of your last 36 units must be completed at Make School.

  - At least 39 units total must be completed at Make School.

- Academic Progress Requirement: Students are required to complete all degree requirements within a
  percentage of the minimum credits required to degree completion. The maximum time-frame allowance
  is 150% of the published program length of the student’s currently enrolled program of study.

- International Language Competency Requirement: Students must demonstrate competency in a
  non-English language. This requirement can be satisfied through approved High School courses, SAT
  subject examination, AP or IB examination, college courses, formal instruction, assessment by a
  university, or certification by a High School Principal.

#### International Language Competency Requirement

In order to earn a Bachelor’s degree, all Make School students must satisfy the International
Foreign Language Requirement. While most students will meet this requirement based upon their
foriegn language credits earned in High School, other students will need to meet the requirement
through one of the options listed below.** Note:** Transfer students entering with 60 or more units
are considered to have met this requirement. Second bachelor's degree seeking students are also
considered to have met this requirement.

All required documentation should be sent to the Office of the Registrar.

Students can fulfill this requirement by one of the methods listed below. Bilingual students can be
considered to have met the requirement; see below for methods of documenting competency in a
language other than English.

1. **Approved High School Courses:** Two years of high school study of the same international
   language, completed with a ‘C’ (2.0) average. Courses used to fulfill the requirement should
   emphasize speaking and understanding, and include instruction in grammar, vocabulary, reading,
   composition, and culture. American Sign Language and classical languages, such as Latin and
   Greek, are acceptable. This can be confirmed by submitting a copy of your high school transcript
   to the Registrar's office.

2. **SAT Subject Examination:** See below for the qualifying subject examinations and their required
   minimum scores. Scores should be sent to the Registrar’s Office.

| Chinese with Listening         | 520 |
| ------------------------------ | --- |
| French/French with Listening   | 540 |
| German/German with Listening   | 510 |
| Modern Hebrew                  | 470 |
| Italian                        | 520 |
| Japanese with Listening        | 50  |
| Korean with Listening          | 500 |
| Latin                          | 530 |
| Spanish/Spanish with Listening | 520 |

3. **AP or IB Examination:** See below for the qualifying subject examinations and their required
   minimum scores. Scores should be sent to the Registrar’s Office.

| AP Language or Literature Exam in: French, German, Spanish, or Latin | 3 or higher |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| IB Language A2 HL Exam                                               | 4 or higher |

4. **College Courses:** A grade of ‘C’ (2.0) or better in any transferable course(s) (excluding
   conversation) is considered to be equivalent to two years of high school language. NOTE: Many
   colleges list the prerequisites for their second course in a language as "Language 1 at this
   college or two-years of high school language;" in this case, Language 1 fulfills both years of
   the International Language Competency requirement. This can be confirmed by submitting a copy of
   your high school transcript to the Registrar's office. For students who want to enroll in a
   college course concurrent with their Make School enrollment must follow the
   [Off-Campus Courses Policies and Procedures](../academic-procedures/registration) to earn credit
   for this requirement. The following off-campus courses have been approved for meeting the foreing
   language requirement:

- Coursera's Chinese for Beginners and More Chinese for Beginners (must take both)\* \*

5. **Formal Instruction in a language other than English:** Completion of two years of formal
   instruction in a school where a language other than English was used as a medium of instruction
   beginning in grade 6 or later, documented by an official school transcript or other official
   document. This can be confirmed by submitting a copy of your high school transcript to the
   Registrar's office.

6. **Assessment by another University:** Most language departments at universities will conduct an
   assessment and issue a statement of competency on official letterhead, which serves as
   certification that this requirement has been met. To fulfill the requirement by this method, a
   student should contact a university with a department in the language to be assessed to request
   an appointment to have an assessment conducted.
   [New York University International Language Exams](https://www.sps.nyu.edu/professional-pathways/proficiency-testing.html)
   have been pre approved to meet this requirement. Scores should be sent to the Registrar’s Office.

7. **Certification by High School Principal:**. Certification should be based on the judgment of
   language instructors, advice of professional or cultural organizations with an interest in
   maintaining language proficiency, or other appropriate sources of expertise. Language placement
   examinations or similar assessments may be used for certification by a high school principal.
   This can be confirmed by submitting a copy of your high school transcript or letter from the
   principal to the Registrar's office.

Graduating with a Bachelor of Science in Applied Computer Science

Degrees are conferred only after the Office of the Registrar and Dean have verified the successful
completion of all graduation requirements, within 60 days after the end of your final semester.
Degree conferrals are actions of Make School and are not altered in any way by the internal
restructuring of schools, academic divisions, departments, or programs.

Waiving a Prerequisite Course

Students have the opportunity to waive some introductory technical courses by taking a proctored
examination. While this waiver does not grant credits toward degree completion, students are
permitted to satisfy those credit requirements by successfully completing other technical courses.

### Sample Course Sequencing by Concentration

It is important to be aware of course prerequisites and limited offerings in order to choose courses
each term. To see all of our course offerings, including descriptions and prerequisites, visit:
[make.sc/course-offerings](http://make.sc/course-offerings). To see which classes will be offered in
future terms please visit [make.sc/course-schedule](make.sc/course-schedule) to see the yearly
schedule and [make.sc/course-registrations](make.sc/course-registrations) to see the schedule for
this term.

Sample course sequencing shown below is one option, but your actual sch

#### BEW: Backend Web Development

Students must take six 3-unit courses from BEW 1.2, BEW 1.3, BEW 2.1, BEW 2.2, BEW 2.3, BEW 2.4, BEW
2.5 or BEW 2.9, five 3-unit foundation courses, and four 3-unit electives as well as all SPD, INT
and S&L courses.

- Students are encouraged to take CS 1.3 as one of their technical electives.

- Key Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 -> WEB 1.1 -> BEW 1.2 -> All other BEW courses.

![Back end web concentration sample 2 year plan](../images/back-end-web-concentration-sample-2-year-plan.png)

#### FEW: Frontend Web Development

Students must take six 3-unit courses from FEW 1.2, FEW 1.3, FEW 2.1, FEW 2.2, FEW 2.3, FEW 2.4, FEW
2.5, FEW 2.6 or FEW 2.9, five 3-unit foundation courses, and four 3-unit electives as well as all
SPD, INT and S&L courses.

- Key Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 (or FEW 1.1) -> FEW 1.2 -> Most FEW Courses, WEB 1.1 and FEW 1.2 -> FEW
  2.3 -> FEW 2.4

![Frontend web concentration sample 2 year plan](../images/front-end-web-concentration-sample-2-year-plan.png)

#### MOB: Mobile Development

Students must take six 3-unit courses from MOB 1.1, MOB 1.2, MOB 1.3, MOB 2.1, MOB 2.2, MOB 2.3, MOB
2.4, five 3-unit foundation courses, and four 3-unit electives as well as all SPD, INT and S&L
courses.

- Students must also take BEW 1.2 as one of their technical electives as it is a prerequisite for
  MOB 1.3

- Key Prerequisites: Most Mobile courses have the previous course as a prerequisite and must be
  taken in order. MOB 1.1 ->MOB 1.2 and BEW 1.2 ->MOB 1.3 ->MOB 2.1 ->MOB 2.3 ->MOB 2.4

![Mobile concentration sample 2 year plan](../images/mobile-concentration-sample-2-year-plan.png)

#### DS: Data Science

Students must take five 3-unit courses from DS 1.1, DS 2.1, DS 2.2, DS 2.3, DS 2.4, five 3-unit
foundation courses, and four 3-unit electives as well as all SPD, INT and S&L courses.

- Students are strongly encouraged to take CS 1.3 as an elective.

- Students must have met their Quantitative Literacy Requirement or take QL 1.1 prior to DS 1.1

- Key Prerequisites: Most Data Science courses have the previous course as a prerequisite and must
  be taken in order. QL 1.1 and CS 1.2 -> DS 1.1 -> DS 2.1 ->DS 2.2 -> DS 2.4, DS 2.1 -> DS 2.3

![Data science concentration sample 2 year plan](../images/data-science-concentration-sample-2-year-plan.png)

## Course Descriptions

### SPD: Software Product Development

Software Product Development (SPD) is the core curriculum taken by every student. Classes consist of
a blend of technical and general skills that all software engineers and employees must master to be
successful developers and engineers. Courses include SPD classes taken every term which include
designing, coding, and shipping a unique portfolio product., INT (Intensive) sessions which are week
long immersive product development courses offered three times a year, and SWE (Supervised Work
Experience) which is an internship experience taken in the first or second summer.

#### SPD 1.1: Introduction to Product Development (ACS 1910)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers how to build products that people love. Key concepts include understanding user
needs (industry and competitive analysis, user interviews), building iterative prototypes
(wireframes, user journeys, scoping), and doing the work to validate your idea (user testing). This
course also teaches success skills necessary to become a well-rounded product developer, including
using professional communication best practices, building healthy habits, and getting feedback from
industry contacts and peers.

#### SPD 1.2: Agile Development & UX/UI (ACS 1920)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course guides students in building a product using the lean product development methodology.
Students work in pairs and gain practice working through the challenges that arise during
collaboration. This course also layers in lessons related to UI/UX to help students iteratively
improve the look and feel of their product. Key concepts covered include: information hierarchy,
system state, grid systems, onboarding teardowns, typography and color, digital mockup tools, user
testing. By the end of the term student teams will ship a beautiful product that delights users.

#### SPD 1.3: Team Software Project (ACS 2930)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on the foundational skills of successful engineering teams. Students work in
teams of four to conduct weekly sprints and retrospectives. Topics include: SCRUM planning, meeting
management, delegation, conflict resolution, role ownership, advanced Git & GitHub, Unix Utilities,
performance reviews, basics of organizational psychology and team development. Students utilize all
the skills they've developed in SPD thus far to ship a sophisticated multi-feature software product
that solves a real world problem.

#### SPD 1.41: Engineering Careers: Communication & Interviewing (ACS 2941)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on engineering careers, particularly on how to prepare for technical interviews.
You'll be able to clearly walk an interviewer through your thought process, clearly craft code on a
whiteboard, and check your work to show improvements and drawbacks. You will also hone your resume
and LinkedIn profiles to highlight your most recent accomplishments. You'll use these stunning
upgrades to your resume and portfolio, to connect with industry professionals to hear what their
experience was like while interviewing for companies and beginning their careers.

#### SDP 1.51: Engineering Careers: Management & Leadership (ACS 2951)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on engineering careers, particularly on leadership: coaching, leading people and
organizations. Students will also focus on solving coding challenges and preparing for technical
interviews. Students who perform well in this class will have the option to become peer coaches for
incoming students at the start of the new school year.

#### SPD 2.1: Industry Collaboration Project: Client Work (ACS 3910)

_Prerequisites: None_

Students team up to work on an ambitious project of their choice or with actual organizations or
other student teams to co-develop software products. This experience simulates many challenges and
opportunities of actual work environments including, managing stakeholders, cross team
collaboration, leading teams, managing up, conflict resolution, advocating for their ideas,
increasing probability of adoption within an organization and users. Key concepts of how to lead and
how to follow, how to manage and how to be managed are taught through role playing, discussion, and
and in depth reading list of both current and classical writings on leadership. For students who
never want a job as a manager to those who want to climb the corporate ladder, the course provides
vital lessons on how teams work and how to make them great. Students can find an organization to
work with on their own or select from a group of preselected organizations. Students also have the
option to work on their own original idea.

#### SPD 2.2: Industry Collaboration Project: Analytics & Growth (ACS 3920)

_Prerequisites: None_

A continuation of SPD 2.1. Students continue work on their industry collaboration project from last
term. Now that their products are live, teams will work to acquire and retain users using industry
practices in growth marketing. Teams also make data-driven design decisions based off site traffic.
This class experience continues to simulate many challenges and opportunities of actual work
environments.

#### SPD 2.3: Onboarding (ACS 4941)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course prepares students to onboard to a development job and to navigate the time between
joining a company and making valuable contributions to the codebase; commonly known as ramping.
Building on best practices from company onboarding programs or Ramp Camps, the course covers common
architectures and tools that large codebases use to operate including continuous integration with
Travis CI, code reviews, server admin. The course also covers topics one must master to have a
successful life as a working professional, such as personal finance, financial models, using
spreadsheets, and the science of habit formation, health and wellness.

#### SPD 2.31: Testing & Architecture (ACS 4931)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course focuses on advanced topics in testing and code craftsmanship. Students apply these
concepts to existing portfolio projects, adding a further layer of sophistication. Topics covered
include: types of testing, automated testing, design patterns, open source coding, and navigating
massive codebases. The course also covers guiding principles in software development that help
professional developers make decisions on what language, frameworks, and construction practices to
use while building projects. By the end of the course, students will have refactored projects to
have better testing and architecture, and built an additional solo project incorporating course
principles

#### SPD 2.41: Onboarding Into Companies (ACS 4941)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course prepares students to onboard to a development job and to navigate the time between
joining a company and making valuable contributions to the codebase; commonly known as ramping.
Building on best practices from company onboarding programs or Ramp Camps, the course covers how to
make impactful technical contributions starting day one and quickly hack your way to a promotion.
The course also covers topics one must master to have a successful life as a working professional,
such as personal finance, financial models, using spreadsheets, and the science of habit formation,
health and wellness.

#### INT 1.1: Fall Intensive 1 (ACS 2910)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Fall Intensive 1 the focus is on design and user testing as well best practices and steps to
build and pitch an original product in a week. The Intensive culminates with each student pitching
their product to their classmates on the last day.

#### INT 1.2: Winter Intensive 1 (ACS 2911)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Winter Intensive 1 the focus is on UI/UX and delivering a high quality project to be included in
the student portfolio that will be available to employers when hiring. Key concepts include creating
informative project READMEs and pitching to customers. The Intensive culminates with an Open House
where students present their projects in science fair style to the rest of the Make School community
and external guests.

#### INT 1.3: Spring Intensive 1 (ACS 2912)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week and a half of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on
progress, short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and
classmates. In this intensive, students have the flexibility to work on a team or solo and to either
start a new project or build upon an old project. Key concepts include advanced topics in
collaboration and peer feedback. The Spring Intensive ends with a Demo Night in which students pitch
their products to dozens of industry contacts, recruiters, and Make School partners. Students will
be looking for summer internships at this time, and post intensive work days include applying for
internships at companies pitched to during Demo Night.

#### INT 2.1: Fall Intensive 2 (ACS 4910)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Fall Intensive 2 the focus is on design and user testing. Students will choose an application
they have already built and add a new feature. The Intensive culminates with each student pitching
their product to their classmates on the last day.

#### INT 2.2: Winter Intensive 2 (ACS 4911)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on progress,
short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and classmates.
In Winter Intensive 2 the focus is on UI/UX and polishing all existing projects in the student
portfolio that will be available to employers when hiring. Instructional sessions will focus on
delivering a product pitch The Intensive cumulates with an Open House where students present their
projects in science fair style to the rest of the Make School community and external guests.

#### INT 2.3: Spring Intensive 2 ACS (4912)

_Prerequisites: None_

Intensive courses are hands on, immersive experiences designed to give students time to apply their
skills to building original products (website or apps) and practice software engineering skills. The
course is a week and a half of coding all day with daily check-ins and feedback from instructors on
progress, short instructional sessions on key concepts, and ongoing support from instructors and
classmates. In this intensive, students have the flexibility to work on a team or solo and to either
start a new project or build upon an old project. Key concepts include advanced topics in
collaboration and peer feedback. The Spring Intensive ends with a Demo Night in which students pitch
their products to dozens of industry contacts, recruiters, and Make School partners. Students will
be deep in the hiring process at this time, and post intensive work days include applying for
employment at companies pitched to during Demo Night.

#### SWE 2.1: Supervised Work Experience (ACS 4912)

_Prerequisites: 6 Technical Credits, Project Advisor Approval_

This course provides valuable learning through an internship at a technology company working as a
software engineer. Students develop an individualized learning plan with bi-monthly goals that are
shared with and approved by their SWE Project Advisor. Students write a reflection of their
experience and learnings at the end of the internship which is reviewed and published a public blog
post. The SWE course can take place during any 12 week period; but usually students complete SWE
during their first or second summer.

### Foundation

Students in the five foundation courses will master the basics of computer science and full stack
web development. Students will also learn the basic skills and tools of the software development
process. These courses are taken in a student’s first terms at Make School and are the foundation of
all the technical courses.

#### CS 1.0: Introduction to Programming (ACS 1100)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the fundamentals of programming including variables, data types, conditionals,
control flow, loops, lists, file input and output, and functions. Students will learn software
development skills including writing pseudocode, drawing flowchart diagrams, problem solving, and
debugging.

#### CS 1.1: Object Oriented Programming (ACS 1110)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.0_

This course covers the fundamentals of programming including variables, data types, control flow,
conditionals, loops, lists, dictionaries, functions, and object-oriented programming. Students will
master top-level concepts in software development including writing pseudocode, using functions to
process input into output, technical project planning, and diagramming. The course will also cover
how computers work, from components and layout to memory and machine code instructions.

#### CS 1.2: Introduction to Data Structures (ACS 1120)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.1_

This course looks under the hood at data structures and algorithms to see how arrays, linked lists
and hash tables work. Students will build these structures from scratch, analyze complexity, and
benchmark performance in an application to gain an understanding of real-world tradeoffs. Students
will write scripts, functions, and library modules to use text processing tools like regular
expressions, construct and sample probability distributions to create a Markov language model and
gain insight into how grammar works and introductory natural language processing techniques.

#### WEB 1.0: Web Foundations (ACS 1700)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the foundations of HTML, CSS and JavaScript which are the building blocks of any
web application. Students will master HTML and intermediate CSS allowing them to create a compelling
website from scratch. JavaScript will be introduced and students will learn basic concepts and
syntax needed to create interactive frontend applications. The course will also cover the
architecture of frontend applications, the role of each technology in creating modular applications,
and professional best practices in frontend development.

#### WEB 1.1: Web Architecture (ACS 1710)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0_

This course covers language-independent web server frameworks and patterns in full-stack web design.
Students will use their prior knowledge in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build the front-end of a
simple web application, and then will learn new concepts to write a supporting back-end. This course
covers the request-response cycle, server-side templating, parsing data from an HTML form, HTTP
methods, and using APIs. More advanced concepts include document-based databases and controller
testing

### CS: Computer Science

Students in these courses will build on the foundational computer science and master concepts such
as data structures, algorithm design and analysis, discrete math, probability, recursion, and
object-oriented programming. Understanding these topics is necessary to build scalable software that
can gracefully handle millions of users and data points. Technical interviews and programming
challenges very often assess an applicant’s ability to apply these skills and knowledge to a new
problem. Students will write blog posts about these topics explaining how they work to understand
deeper and bolster your online presence as a knowledgeable and proficient software engineer.

#### CS 1.3: Core Data Structures & Algorithms (ACS 2130)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.2_

This course explores the foundations of computer science including discrete mathematics, abstract
data types, data structures, and algorithm analysis and design. Students will compare and contrast
iterative and recursive algorithms to analyze design and performance tradeoffs. Students will
implement and test data structures including lists, stacks, queues, sets, maps, and trees. Students
will then apply these to real-world problems like phone call routing to understand their tradeoffs.
Students will also write technical blog articles about these topics to deepen understanding, improve
technical writing, and bolster their online presence as knowledgeable and proficient software
engineers.

#### CS 2.1: Advanced Trees & Sorting Algorithms (ACS 31110)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.3_

In this course students will implement and test advanced data structures and algorithms, analyze
algorithmic complexity, benchmark performance in time and memory usage, and draw out elegant
problem-solving techniques. Key concepts include divide-and-conquer recursion, sorting algorithms,
heaps, tries, n-ary trees, and self-balancing trees. Students will build an original project that
applies these data structures to real-world problems such as autocomplete, expression parsing, and
phylogenetic trees. Students will also write technical blog articles about these topics to deepen
understanding, improve technical writing, and bolster their online presence as knowledgeable and
proficient software engineers.

#### CS 2.2: Advanced Recursion & Graphs (ACS 3120)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.3_

This course covers graph theory, data structures, algorithms, and analysis. Key concepts include
recursion, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, memoization, graph traversal, spanning trees, and
network optimization. Students will build an original project whose underlying structure requires
the use of graph structures and algorithms to solve real-world problems such as airplane routing,
social networking, maze solving, and board games. Students will also write technical blog articles
about these topics to deepen understanding, improve technical writing, and bolster their online
presence as knowledgeable and proficient software engineers.

### BEW: Backend Web Development

In the *Back End Web Concentration *students will learn common Resourceful and RESTful patterns and
paradigms. Students will first learn to use and later to develop and release standardized
server-side applications. Beginning by fostering familiarity with syntactic language features, then
rapidly moving into building server-side web applications, APIs and advanced full stack patterns
including WebSockets, simple search, full text search, upload files, payment gateways, and more.
Advanced courses will look at deployment, web security and scaling.

#### BEW 1.2: Authentication, Authorization & Advanced Queries (ACS 1220)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1_

In this course, students build on knowledge of Resourceful and RESTful patterns and dive deep into
the Node and Express ecosystems. Students learn how to manage greater scope and complexity in their
code while consistently keeping the user's experience in mind through implementing a clone of the
popular website, Reddit. The course will also cover the procedures required to authenticate and
authorize web application users.

#### BEW 1.3: Server-Side Architecture & Frameworks (ACS 2230)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1_

In this course, students will learn to develop and release standardized server-side applications.
Techniques include favoring convention over configuration, following a strict RESTful MVC
architecture, and emphasizing the role of automated testing. This course begins by fostering
familiarity with syntactic language features, then rapidly moves into building and deploying
server-side web applications and APIs.

#### BEW 2.1: Advanced Backend Web Patterns (ACS 3210)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course students deepen their understanding of the web and implement advanced features that
add complexity and uniqueness to a server’s structure. Advanced full stack patterns covered include
WebSockets, simple search, payment gateways, chat room, uploading images and files, full text
search, and sending emails and texts.

#### BEW 2.2: DevOps, Deployment & Containers (ACS 3220)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course students will learn the two main flavors of Developer Operations (DevOps), one that
uses containers and one that does not. Students will learn the leading container pattern with Docker
and explore the pros and cons of containers by implementing them. Students will also learn about
DevOps without containers using AWS and S3 tools. The course will tie both these patterns together
with generic DevOp patterns, such as environmental design, development controls, and uptime
management.

#### BEW 2.3: Introduction to Web Security (ACS 3230)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

This course covers key concepts in internet data security and best practices for keeping information
safe. Students will examine historical hacks, learn how to analyze websites and web architectures
for classical security vulnerabilities, and learn how to defend against security attacks.

#### BEW 2.4: Decentralized Apps and Distributed Protocols (ACS 3240)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course, students will learn how to utilize a fresh, exciting new development paradigm that
harnesses the power of peer-to-peer applications and distributed architectures. This course begins
by demystifying common jargon in the modern-day blockchain ecosystem, then establishes best
practices for developing consensus based products and services.

#### BEW 2.5: Patterns & Practices in Strongly Typed Ecosystems (Go) (ACS 4210)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course, students discover the value of strongly typed languages in server-side
architectures, and dive deep into performant, concurrent programming paradigms present in Go. In
studying Go, which is known for its ability to blend the expressive features of dynamic languages
(Python, JavaScript) with the performance capabilities of compiled languages (C, C++), students will
gain the syntactic diversity required in today's large-scale platform engineering pursuits.
Throughout the course, students will learn and implement the design patterns and best practices that
make Go a top choice at high-velocity startups like Lyft, Heroku, Docker, and Medium.

#### BEW 2.9: Back End Web Technical Seminar (ACS 4290)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in BEW Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. The instructor will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.

### DS: Data Science & Machine Learning

In the Data Science Concentration students will learn data analysis, data visualization and
extracting statistical information into a dataset. Students will also learn how to predict a
continuous target for example stock market price based on various features in a tabular data, they
will explore methods that can be used to cluster datasets into groups. Other topics include
classification of different data resources including image, text and audio by using neural networks
and deep learning, approaches to deploy machine learning models in the cloud using Flask, Docker,
and advanced applications of machine learning and deep learning for recommender systems, natural
language processing and computer vision.

#### DS 1.1: Data Analysis & Visualization (ACS 2510)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.2, QL 1.1 (MATH 1450)_

In this course, students learn the foundational skills of data science, including data collection,
scrubbing, analysis, and visualization with modern tools and libraries. Students gain a strong
grounding in statistical concepts, utilize statistical techniques and master the science and art of
data exploration and visualization to tell stories and persuade decision makers with data-driven
insights.

#### DS 2.1: Machine Learning (ACS 3510)

_Prerequisites: DS 1.1_

This course explores the foundations of machine learning and how to apply those techniques to data
science. Key concepts include comparing accuracy measures to evaluate the quality of models,
features, and training methods and exploring supervised learning techniques including decision
trees, naive Bayes, k-nearest neighbors, linear and logistic regression, support vector machines,
and neural networks. The course will also cover unsupervised learning techniques including k-means
and hierarchical clustering, and ensemble learning methods including random forests and adaptive
boosting. Students learn the data science process and apply these techniques to train models on data
sets using industry-standard modern software libraries and tools.

#### DS 2.2: Deep Learning (ACS 3520)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.1_

This course explores the cutting edge of data science: deep learning. This course compares and
contrasts several neural network architectures for solving problems across different domains
including image classification, and face recognition. Students build and train a perceptron which is
the basic computational unit of artificial neural networks. The course will cover the limitations of
perceptrons and how non-linear activation functions enhance their power, how to combine many
perceptrons to construct feed-forward neural networks and how to program a training algorithm using
error backpropagation and gradient descent. Students will use cutting-edge software libraries and
tools including Keras and TensorFlow to construct large-scale networks with relatively little code.

#### DS 2.3: Data Science in Production (ACS 3530)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.1_

This course covers the tools and techniques commonly utilized for production machine learning in
industry. Students learn how to provide web interfaces for training machine learning or deep
learning models with Flask and Docker. Students will deploy models in the cloud through Amazon Web
Services, gather and process data from the web, and display information for consumption in advanced
web applications using Plotly and D3.js. This course also covers how to work with structured (SQL)
and unstructured (NoSQL) databases. The students use Spark and PySpark to make querying even the
largest data stores manageable.

#### DS 2.4: Advanced Topics in Data Science (ACS 4510)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.2, CS 1.3_

This course covers popular advanced machine learning and deep learning concepts including
recommendation systems (RS) and Deep RS, Bayesian networks, probabilistic graphical models, natural
language processing, LSTM neural networks, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), and advanced
computer vision (Unet). Students complete individual comprehensive projects in one of the topic
areas and present their findings in a seminar format.

#### DS 2.9: Data Science Technical Seminar (ACS 4590)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in DS Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. Instructors will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.

### FEW: Frontend Web Development

Students pursuing the _Front End Web Concentration_ learn the theory and application of the full
product development process for interactive web applications. Beginning with full-stack Javascript
and its core functional programming principles, students will then examine more thoroughly front-end
and back-end engineering courses. In upper division courses, students will learn to secure, deploy,
and scale their applications using the same production-grade tools used in industry. Throughout,
students will put their learned skills and knowledge into practice by designing, coding, and
launching products that solve commercial or societal problems.

#### FEW 1.2: JavaScript Foundations (ACS 1320)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course covers foundational JavaScript, debugging JavaScript and working with various JavaScript
libraries to build applications and games. Classes and Object Oriented Programming (OOP) are
introduced with a closer look at how OOP is uniquely implemented in JavaScript. Students gain a
strong understanding of JavaScript syntax and features.

#### FEW 1.3: Responsive Web Design (ACS 2330)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course covers the technologies needed to build responsive websites. Students will build
projects that consume outside APIs and display JSON data using AJAX, Fetch, Promise, and Async/Await
and CORS. Students will use CSS media queries and responsive CSS techniques to create projects that
display well on both desktop and mobile.

#### FEW 2.1: Writing JavaScript Libraries (ACS 3310)

_Prerequisites: FEW 1.2_

This course focuses on creating and publishing front end libraries in JavaScript. Students will
learn JavaScript testing, functional programming, module patterns, and basic build systems through
creating and publishing NPM libraries. Unit testing is introduced and applied. The course emphasizes
problem abstraction and writing code that solves general problems.

#### FEW 2.2: Web Design & Advanced CSS (ACS 3320)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course is a deep exploration of CSS. Students take a close look at rendering web pages with
CSS, using CSS for motion and interaction, optimizing CSS for use with CSS variables and working
with modern CSS frameworks.

#### FEW 2.3: Single Page Web Applications (ACS 3330)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1, FEW 1.2_

This course covers the process and tools used to build single page applications (SPA) using the most
up-to-date tools and techniques. Students will learn to manage state and render on state changes
using reactive programming techniques. Modern JavaScript libraries including React and Redux will be
used.

#### FEW 2.4: Native Development with JavaScript (ACS 3340)

_Prerequisites: FEW 2.3_

This course covers how JavaScript can be used to create native desktop and mobile applications for
both Android and iOS. JavaScript provides a path to applications that have the ease of being cross
platform and written in JavaScript while still benefiting most of the features of writing in the
native language. Students will deepen their JavaScript knowledge and gain understanding where these
JavaScript frameworks can and can not effectively replace native programming.

#### FEW 2.5: Data Visualization and Web Graphics (ACS 4310)

_Prerequisites: FEW 1.2_

This course covers programming in JavaScript D3 to display and visualize data as well as how to
manage, transform, and normalize data for display on the screen. Students will learn how to create
effective visualizations, complex drawings and animations on the web using SVG for vector graphics
and Canvas for pixel based graphics.

#### FEW 2.9: Front End Web Technical Seminar (ACS 4390)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in FEW Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. Instructors will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.

### MOB: Mobile Development in iOS & Swift

Students pursuing the *Mobile Concentration *learn the theory and application of the full product
development process for mobile applications. Beginning with Swift programming language and its core
object-oriented programming principles, students then study Apple’s front-end frameworks for
creating interactive applications, first creating single page and then multi-page apps. In upper
division courses, students will learn to synchronize the local and cloud data in their applications,
using the same advanced frameworks used in industry.

#### MOB 1.1: Introduction to Swift (ACS 1410)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the foundations of Swift programming language. Students learn core concepts in
mobile development including variables, constants, keywords, conditionals, loops, data types, object
oriented principles. Students will practice these concepts by building games in Swift and simple iOS
applications using UIKit.

#### MOB 1.2: Introduction to iOS Development (ACS 2420)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.1_

This course covers the foundations of Swift programming language. Students learn core concepts in
mobile development including variables, constants, keywords, conditionals, loops, data types, object
oriented principles. Students will practice these concepts by building games in Swift and simple iOS
applications using UIKit. Prerequisites.

#### MOB 1.3: Dynamic iOS Applications (ACS 2430)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.2, BEW 1.2_

This course covers the programming concepts needed to create dynamic iOS applications that can
respond to user events. Key concepts include closures, callbacks and delegations. Students will
learn how these constructs are used to pass information between views and objects and common
communication patterns and roles. Students will fetch and parse information from the internet
through APIs, interact with public APIs with and without authentication, make network requests in
iOS using native Swift tools, model a networking layer in iOS, and parse a JSON network response
using native Swift tools. The course will also introduce popular networking libraries and tools such
as Alamofire & Firebase.

#### MOB 2.1: Local Persistence in iOS (ACS 3410)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3 _

This course covers how and why to persist data in mobile development. Students learn the various
options for saving data locally in iOS including Core Data, Realm, NSCoder, UserDefaults, and
Keychain. Key concepts include best practices in storing and retrieving sensitive data and how to
work with the iOS file system.

#### MOB 2.2: 2D Mobile Game Development (ACS 3420)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3_

This course is an introduction to gaming on mobile devices. Students will learn SpriteKit and
important core concepts like Sprites, Sprite Sheets, physics, and common gaming software patterns
like State Machine.

#### MOB 2.3: iOS Concurrency & Parallelism (ACS 3430)

_Prerequisites: MOB 2.1_

This course covers concurrency and parallelism in iOS to optimize programming performance on mobile
devices which are built with multiple cores. Students will learn the foundation of Grand Central
Dispatch and build applications that run multiple tasks simultaneously which improves speed.

#### MOB 2.4: Advanced Architectural Patterns in iOS (ACS 4410)

_Prerequisites: MOB 2.3 and BEW 1.2_

This course covers cutting edge iOS patterns like Functional Programming & Functional Reactive
Programming (FRP). Students will compare and contrast functional design patterns with OOP and other
design patterns and create complex applications using functional design patterns including Monads,
Monoids, Functors and Applicatives. Students will learn the pros and cons of functional reactive
programming, be able to identify and combine Observables, and list subjects in RxSwift.

#### MOB 2.9: Mobile Technical Seminar (ACS 4490)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in MOB Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. The Instructor will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.

### Directed Studies

#### ENT 1.1: Contracting (ACS 1970)

_Prerequisites: 9 Technical Credits, Instructor Approval_

In this course students learn and implement various sales strategies to acquire new customers.
Students will perform contracting work with real and hypothetical clients to create products
according to specification. Key concepts include how to find contracting work the steps to ensure
client satisfaction.

#### EPM 2.1: Entrepreneurship (ACS 3970)

_Prerequisites: 9 Technical Credits, Instructor Approval_

This course covers how to grow a business once the idea is validated and how to scale while raising
funding from investors, bankers, or customers. Students will learn how to hire real and virtual
employees, understand legal contracts for incorporating and distributing equity, and develop pitch
decks for real products.

#### SUP 2.1: Supervised Intensive Study (ACS 4991)

_Prerequisites: 6 Technical Credits, Project Advisor Approval_

This course is an independent study to give students with diverse interests the space and time to
explore and practice their craft and exercise their skills. Students will work with an advisor and
make a plan that includes elements of theory, writing, reading, planning, and significant
programming with key deliverables and timeline. To register for these courses, the student must find
a Supervisor (instructor or staff) who will oversee their progress and complete the
[SUP Contract Template. ](http://make.sc/SUP-contract)

#### SUP 2.2: Supervised Intensive Project (ACS 4992)

_Prerequisites: 6 Technical Credits, Project Advisor Approval_

This course gives students the opportunity to create a large, ambitious project that incorporates
skills from various classes and puts their knowledge to a real-world test. Students will define a
project, set milestones, and project manage with the guidance of a Project Advisor (instructor or
other appropriate professional). The course is designed to germinate real-world work with purpose
and will culminate with a deployed or published project. To register for these courses, the student
must find a Supervisor (instructor or staff) who will oversee their progress and complete the
[SUP Contract Template. ](http://make.sc/SUP-contract)

### Science & Letters (CORE)

The Science & Letters (CORE) curriculum is comprised of nine categories: Effective Communication 1,
Effective Communication 2, Quantitative Literacy & Social Issues, Civic Knowledge and Engagement,
Artistic and Creative Expression, Science for Global Citizens, An Examined Life, Social Sciences:
Understanding Human Behavior, and Purpose and Meaning.

Make School embraces diversity and encourages students to bring their informed perspectives to the
learning environment. As such, Make School’s S&L curriculum allows for various worldviews to be
present in the classroom and extends the ability for students to engage in the free expression of
ideas in their search for truth. Therefore, faculty and students are protected by
[Academic Freedom](../academic-and-educational-program-information/academic-freedom) in all Science
and Letters courses.

Science and Letters classes available for registration vary by term. The course descriptions
included are courses that have been previously been offered and may be offered during the 2020-2021
school year.

1. Effective Communication 1

#### EC 1000: Effective Communication 1: Verbal and Visual Literacies

_Prerequisites: None_

This course provides essential training in analyzing and creating poly-modal forms of written, oral,
digital, and visual communication. Students learn to effectively critique communicative works and to
engage the process of drafting, feedback, and revision in order to produce their own well-designed,
carefully researched written texts, oral presentations, and visual communications (including the
digital portfolio and an academic essay) for different potential audiences. Emphasizing the
conventions of reflective and critical modes of writing and speaking, this course prepares students
for communicative success in their college careers and beyond. The course may be offered as Writing
Intensive or Service-Learning.

#### ENGL 1004: Expository Writing

_Prerequisites: None_

Students will engage in writing of university-level expository essays across rhetorical modes.
Emphasis on critical reading, and thinking, summary, analysis, synthesis, and research. Can be
substituted for EC 1000.

2. Effective Communication 2

#### EC 2000: Effective Communication 2: Rhetoric and Research

_Prerequisites: EC 1000 or HONO 1100_

This course places an emphasis on critical thinking through research, evaluating source material,
and synthesizing concepts for advanced argumentative rhetoric. Through engagement with scholarly
texts and revision of their own work, students create persuasive rhetorics (oral, visual, and
written) crafted from logic, evidence, study, and synthesis - applying appropriate citation,
documentation, form, and medium.

3. Quantitative Literacy & Social Issues

#### MATH 1450: Mathematical Thinking and Quantitative Reasoning

_Prerequisites: Score of 30 or higher on ALEKS exam or transfer credit for MATH 1210 (but put in
course title) or higher._

An introductory university mathematics course designed to enable students to see mathematics as an
enriching and empowering discipline. Topics covered include principles of reasoning, problem solving
tools, fundamentals of statistics, modeling our world, exponential growth and decay, fundamentals of
probability, putting statistics to work, real-world mathematical applications. Purchase of a
specific brand and model of a graphing calculator may be required.

4. Civic Knowledge and Engagement

#### ENGL 3051: Latin American Literature

_Prerequisites: None_

Study of major works and movements of Latin arts. The materials for this course are drawn from
across or within major geographical regions of Latin America and are focused on specific literary
periods varying from pre-contact indigenous works to 21st century postmodernism; they cover a wide
spectrum of prose, poetry, and, at times, narrative film that exemplifies national and regional
differences. Works and writers may include "Popol Vuh," "Quetzalcoatl," Garcia Marquez, Allende,
Borges, Neruda, and Paz.

#### HIST 1207: Special Topics in Women’s History

_Prerequisites: None_

This course provides an overview of women’s experiences in different historical periods and in
various geographical locations. Examines the roles assigned to women and at the selected experiences
of women. It studies the writings about and by women. Considers the lives of various historical
women who contributed to the disciplines of art, literature, philosophy, politics, and society.
Focus of the geographical area will vary.

5. Artistic and Creative Expression

#### ENGL 2305: Introduction to Creative Writing

_Prerequisites: None_

Introduction to many forms of creative writing, including poetry, fiction, and drama writing. Study
of key terms and concepts in the writing process and practice in peer workshops.

6. Science for Global Citizens

#### PHSC 3210: Bay Area Rocks: Geology of Northern California

_Corequisites: PHSC 3215 (Lab)_

This lecture class investigates the unique ecosystems of the Bay Area and Northern California. It
explores how the geology and physical environment of California have and continue to shape the way
people live here. Topics include natural disasters, resource use and allocation, water rights,
development limitations and energy generation.

#### PHSC 3215: Bay Area Rocks: Geology of Northern California Lab

_Corequisites: PHSC 3210 (Lecture)_

This is the lab component of PHSC 3215 (see course description above).

#### PHYS 1000: Conceptual Physics

_Corequisites: PHYS 1005 (Lab)_

An introductory physics class. Topics will include classical mechanics (motion), conservation of
energy, thermodynamics, electricity and magnetism, light, sound and wave properties

#### PHYS 1000: Conceptual Physics Lab

_Corequisites: PHYS 1000 (Lecture)_

This is the lab component of PHYS 1000 (see course description above).

7. An Examined Life

#### PHIL 2110: Environmental Ethics

_Prerequisites: None_

An investigation of philosophical perspectives on humanity’s relation to nature, combined with an
exploration of contemporary environmental issues and related political decision making.

#### PHIL 3123: Ethical Being, Being Ethical

_Prerequisites: None_

An introduction to ethical theory in Western philosophy followed by an investigation of a range of
contemporary ethical problems drawn from private life, public policy, law, medicine, and business.

#### PHIL 3102: Global Business Ethics and Law

_Prerequisites: None_

The course examines the field of philosophical ethics and laws and facilitates students’ disciplined
reflections on ethical issues related to domestic and international business. The course covers
ethical methods as applied to business and the legal environment affecting business. Contemporary
ethical issues in business will be examined through case studies.

8. Social Sciences: Understanding Human Behavior

#### PSY 1100: Introduction to Psychology

_Prerequisites: None_

Basic methods and concepts of psychology, focusing on research findings and theoretical viewpoints.
Topics include theories of personality, psychological development, personality disorders, social
psychology, cognition, motivation and emotion, perception and learning, biological and
socio-cultural bases of behavior.

9. Purpose and Meaning

#### PHIL 3125: Human Being, Being Human

_Prerequisites: None_

Inquiry into the enduring questions of human nature including the meaning and purpose of human life,
the questions of its spiritual origin and destiny, its capacities for good and evil, the scope and
limits of its freedom, the nature of knowing, and the question of immortality, drawing upon a range
of Western thought. Particular attention is given to the tension between classical religious and
philosophical views and those stemming from modern human sciences such as psychology, sociology, and
sociobiology.

#### RLGN 3003: Art and the Sacred

_Prerequisites: None_

Analyzes ways that religions and the arts illuminate each other while providing insight into human
experiences, including alienation and injustice. May include community engagement.

#### RLGN 3178: The World’s Religions

_Prerequisites: None_

A study of humankind's ultimate and enduring questions­ the nature of reality and the meaning and
end of human life­ against the background of its multiform spiritual heritage. The course will
survey the world's religious traditions (Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism,
Confucianism, and Taoism), accenting both their commonalities and their distinctiveness.

#### RLGN 3179: Myth, Symbol and Ritual

_Prerequisites: None_

Using an interdisciplinary framework this course stresses that myth, symbol and ritual are of
crucial significance to all human societies, are intricately interdependent as phrenoma of religious
expression, and are vital to the study and to the understanding of religion and humankind. In this
course, we will engage in a cross-cultural examination of how diverse peoples establish their
religious worlds by narrating stories and symbolically acting out their deepest aspirations and
beliefs.

.

## Tuition Information

### Tuition and Costs

The total anticipated cost (direct and indirect) and charges for 2020-2022 Bachelor in Applied
Computer Science Students is **$113,078.** A breakdown of tuition and charges per year is included
below. Students are encouraged to review the Make School Financial Tuition and Aid
[webpage](https://www.makeschool.com/computer-science-degree/tuition-and-aid).

#### Tuition for 2020-2022 Bachelor in Applied Computer Science Students

| Fall and Spring semester tuition year 1:             | $30,000 |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| Summer semester tuition year 1:                      | $10,000 |
| Fall and Spring semester tuition year 2:             | $30,000 |
| Total tuition for the Make School bachelor's program | $70,000 |

#### Additional Costs for 2020-2022 Bachelor in Applied Computer Science Students

These following anticipated additional costs are an estimate of what a student may expect to spend
while attending Make School (indirect costs). **Individual student costs may vary.**

| Books classroom materials (including laptop) per year:   | $200    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| Laptop (First year only):                                | $1,600  |
| Room and Board (Make School Preferred Housing) per year: | $11,940 |
| Transportation per year:                                 | $864    |
| Food per year:                                           | $4,800  |
| Health Insurance per year:                               | $100    |
| Personal Expenses per year:                              | $2,853  |
| Total Indirect Costs per year                            | $22,339 |

### Student Tuition Recovery Fund Disclosure

The State of California established the Student Tuition Recovery Fund (STRF) to relieve or mitigate
economic loss suffered by a student in an educational program at a qualifying institution, who is or
was a California resident while enrolled, or was enrolled in a residency program, if the student
enrolled in the institution, prepaid tuition, and suffered economic loss. Unless relieved of the
obligation to do so, you must pay the state-imposed assessment for the STRF, or it must be paid on
your behalf, if you are a student in an educational program, who is a California resident, or are
enrolled in a residency program, and prepay all or part of your tuition. You are not eligible for
protection from the STRF and you are not required to pass the STRF assessment, if you are not a
California resident, or are not enrolled in a residency program.

It is important that you keep copies of your enrollment agreement, financial aid documents,
receipts, or any other information that documents the amount paid to the school. Questions regarding
the STRF may be directed to the Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education, 2532 Capitol Oaks Drive,
Suite 400, Sacramento, CA 95833, (916) 431-6959 or (888) 370-7589.

To be eligible for STRF, you must be a California resident or are enrolled in a residency program,
prepaid tuition, paid or deemed to have paid the STRF assessment, and suffered an economic loss as a
result of any of the following:

1. The institution, a location of the institution, or an educational program offered by the
   institution was closed or discontinued, and you did not choose to participate in a teach-out plan
   approved by the Bureau or did not complete a chosen teach-out plan approved by the Bureau.

2. You were enrolled at an institution or a location of the institution within the 120 day period
   before the closure of the institution or location of the institution, or were enrolled in an
   educational program within the 120 day period before the program was discontinued.

3. You were enrolled at an institution or a location of the institution more than 120 days before
   the closure of the institution or location of the institution, in an educational program offered
   by the institution as to which the Bureau determined there was a significant decline in the
   quality or value of the program more than 120 days before closure.

4. The institution has been ordered to pay a refund by the Bureau but has failed to do so.

5. The institution has failed to pay or reimburse loan proceeds under a federal student loan program
   required by law, or has failed to pay or reimburse proceeds received by the institution in excess
   of tuition and other costs.

6. You have been awarded restitution, a refund, or other monetary award by an arbitrator or court,
   based on a violation of this chapter by an institution or representative of an institution, but
   have been unable to collect the award from the institution.

7. You sought legal counsel that resulted in the cancellation of one or more of your student loans
   and have an invoice for services rendered and evidence of the cancellation of the student loan or
   loans.

To qualify for STRF reimbursement, the application must be received within four (4) years from the
date of the action or event that made the student eligible for recovery from STRF.

A student whose loan is revived by a loan holder or debt collector after a period of non collection
may, at any time, file a written application for recovery from the STRF for the debt that would have
otherwise been eligible for recovery. If it has been more than four (4) years since the action or
event that made the student eligible, the student must have filed a written application for recovery
within the original four (4) year period, unless the period has been extended by another act or law.

However, no claim can be paid to any student without a social security number or a taxpayer
identification number.

### Degree Completion Beyond the 2 Year Program

For students in Fall 2017 Cohort, given the program that students joined was not initially
accredited, students who need additional time to complete a degree have adjusted financial options.
No additional tuition will be charged for students completing their degree. Additionally, Make
School will reimburse students who take S&L courses off campus up to $500 per course with prior
approval. In order to receive the reimbursement, students must provide receipt of payment and proof
of passing the course. Reimbursable items include tuition, transportation, and course materials.
This can be sent to [financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:finance@makeschool.com).

For all other students (entering the program in Fall 2018 or later), if your degree plan extends
beyond two years, you can complete up to 12 additional credits without being charged if you have
maintained Satisfactory Academic Progress throughout your time at Make School. These 12 credits do
not include the SWE Internship and there is no charge for a SWE Internship taken in the post
two-year time period. Students needing more than 12 credits after the two-year time frame may need
to pay tuition for these credits and will need to consult with financial aid individually
[financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:finance@makeschool.com).

### Internship (SWE) Tuition Policy

Students at Make School are expected to participate in one internship (SWE) to qualify for
graduation.

- For the 2019-2021 cohort, students are charged tuition for their SWE internship. Therefore,
  students will not be charged for their second summer of classes at Make School.

- For the 2020-2022 cohort, students will not be charged tuition for their SWE internship.
  Therefore, students will be charged for their second summer of classes at Make School.

- If a student does not take a SWE during the 1st or 2nd summer at Make School, they will be charged
  the Summer Tuition price of $10,000 for each semester and be invoiced.

- If a student does not take a SWE during the 1st or 2nd summer at Make School (decided at the end
  of Year 2, Term 4), a student will need to talk with their academic advisor about Part-Time
  Tuition for their final term or Year 3 Financing.

### Financial Implications: Leave of Absence & Withdrawal

Students may need to take a temporary Leave of Absence (LOA) from Make School, or may leave Make
School prior to conferring a degree. If a student opts to take a LOA, any tuition invoicing would be
placed on hold until the student’s return. Students who opt to leave Make School early, however, are
able to receive refunds on tuition payments based on a per term basis the following conditions:

1. If a student withdraws from Make School before 20% of a term is completed, the student will be
   refunded the full amount of any payments made that term.

2. If a student withdraws between 20% and 50% of the term, they will owe the prorated amount of
   tuition for that term.

3. Once a student attends greater than 50% of a term, they will be responsible for the entire
   tuition of the term.

4. The only exception is the first term for Year 1 students, of which, if students withdraw by
   10/11/2019, they are eligible for a full refund on tuition. Please reach out to
   [financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:finance@makeschool.com) to make this request.

5. Withdrawn students are eligible to stay in housing offered to Make School students for up-to 30
   days after their withdrawal date. Please refer to your Housing lease for information on
   withdrawing from student housing or ending an independent lease, or reach out to
   [ResLife@makeschool.com](mailto:ResLife@makeschool.com).

### Financial Hold Policy

Under Make School’s Financial Hold Policy, students may be restricted from enrollment in their
classes for non-payment of tuition based on the Enrollment Restriction Criteria. Students will be
notified of their delinquent payment status a minimum of 14 days prior to the New Term start date,
which can be found in the Master Academic Calendar.

Enrollment Restriction Criteria

- **Non-Payment Amount Less than $1,000:** Student is allowed to register

- **Non-Payment Amount Between $1,000 - $5,000:** Student is allowed to register if they agree to a
  payment plan.

- **Non-Payment Amount Greater than $5,000:** Student is not allowed to register

These invoices will be sent from this email address:
[invoice@hq.bill.com](mailto:invoice@hq.bill.com) with the subject line, "You have an invoice from
Make School". If you have questions that are related to how to pay the invoice or want to discuss a
payment plan, please reach out to [financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:finance@makeschool.com).

### Contact Information

All tuition and financial aid questions should be sent to
[financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:financial.aid@makeschool.com). Students are encouraged to
review the Make School Financial Tuition and
Aid[ webpage](https://www.makeschool.com/computer-science-degree/tuition-and-aid).

## Student Financial Aid Policies

### Federal and State Student Financial Aid

Starting in Fall 2020, Make School will be offering a new financial aid model that will (in most
cases) replace previous payment methods used by Make School since 2014. This new plan is designed to
reduce the average cost of a Make School Education while preserving the core protections of previous
tuition agreements - if you don’t have a job after Make School, you should not have to pay until you
are employed.

Under our new model, students will take primary financing from Title IV funding (Pell Grants, Direct
Federal Loans, Parent Plus Loans) and private loans. Make School has created a protection plan that
will cap your loan payments as a percentage of your income to ensure your monthly loan payments
remain affordable. If you are unemployed, this plan will drop your monthly payments to $0.

This strongly incentivizes Make School to see you succeed - if you are underemployed or unemployed
after graduating, Make School will be helping pay your loans every month. This new protection plan
is called Extended Income Based Repayment (EIBR) and is fully described further down on this page.

Tuition gap payment assistance will still be used in rare cases as gap financing - to cover the
remainder of tuition and living expenses that a student is unable to fund through federal and
private loans. Like the protected loans described above, if you don’t have a job you will not have
to pay back your tuition assistance loan until you are employed.

### Student, Private, or Personal Loans

Private loans are an option for the students who need additional resources to attend college above
and beyond any federal or institutional aid they may have received. All loans carry the obligation
to repay the amount borrowed with interest and we encourage all students and families to borrow
responsibly.

If this is your first time learning about private loans, we strongly encourage you to review Make
School’s Tuition website before navigating to the private loan search options, specifically the
disclosures relating to federal student aid and the SB 1289 Disclosure Statement.

#### Primer on Student Loans

- Most private loans are credit-based and may require a cosigner for the borrower to be approved.

- The interest rate can be variable or fixed. This rate may be higher or lower than the interest
  rate of a Federal Direct Loan.

- The maximum amount that can be borrowed, in most cases, cannot exceed the cost of attendance minus
  other financial aid.

- For students who have borrowed multiple private loans and/or federal loans, there are
  consolidation loans available. If considering consolidating federal loans into a private loan, pay
  attention to interest rates and there could be a loss of grace period and/or loan forgiveness
  options.

#### Private Student Loan Search

Make School offers a comprehensive list to assist students and families the private loan options
available. THis list was compiled based on a thorough review of borrower benefits, customer service,
a request for information (RFI) process, other students using a lender or product, and/or other
factors. You are not required to select any of these lenders or products. Before borrowing a private
loan, we strongly recommend you maximize your Federal Direct Loan eligibility.

### Disclosures Related to Federal Student Aid

The Applied Computer Science Program at Make School is awaiting final approval from the Department
of Education to process Title IV Federal Financial Aid. If you have any questions, please contact
[financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:financial.aid@makeschool.com).

We strongly encourage all students to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
prior to borrowing private loans to determine eligibility for Federal, State, and Institutional aid
for the amount for which they may be eligible to receive. By completing the FAFSA, a student may be
able to receive Federal, State, or Institutional Grants, Federal Work-Study, or Federal Loans.

In addition, we strongly encourage students and parents to consider borrowing federal loans prior to
borrowing private loans. The terms and conditions of federal loans (Direct Subsidized Loan, Direct
Unsubsidized Loan, and Direct PLUS Loan) may be more favorable than the terms and conditions of
private loans.

#### Before Applying for a Private Loan (SB 1289 Disclosure Statement)

Students and families considering loans to assist with funding educational expenses need to be aware
of the difference between federal loans and private loans:

- Federal loans are required by law to provide a range of flexible repayment options including, but
  not limited to, income-based and income-contingent repayment plans, as well as loan forgiveness
  benefits that private lenders are not required to provide.

- Federal loans are provided to most students, regardless of income. Other qualification criteria do
  apply.

- Private lenders can offer variable interest rates that can increase or decrease over time,
  depending on market conditions.

- The interest rate on a private loan may depend on the borrower’s and/or cosigner’s credit rating.

- Private loans have a range of interest rates and fees and the borrower should determine the
  interest rate of, and any fees associated with, the private loan included in their financial aid
  award before accepting the loan. Students should contact the lender of the private loan or the
  Office of Financial Aid if there are any questions about a private loan.

Before applying for a private loan, we encourage students and families to research all options and
make sure you understand the interest rate, fees, terms, and conditions of any loan before applying.

**There is a range of interest rates and fees available and we strongly recommend students to apply
with a creditworthy cosigner to potentially obtain a better interest rate and increase the chance of
being approved.**

In addition, you may apply with multiple lenders to find the best loan for you. Student loans are
provided special protections under credit reporting rules (similar to mortgages)--as long as you
conduct your "shopping" within a 30-day period, there should be no impact on your FICO score or loan
terms (Make School does not guarantee this, but that is our understanding).

#### Endorsement Disclaimer

Make School does not endorse any specific lender or any specific product. The lenders and products
[listed](make.sc/preferred-lenders) are not ranked and these lists are meant to serve only as a
guide for students and families looking for additional options to assist with educational expenses.
Make School does not receive any benefits in exchange for placing a lender on the preferred private
loan list.

Make School is always evaluating the lenders, products, and websites it uses to assist students and
families with the private loan search process. A lender will remain on the lender list unless Make
School has a reason to remove it (such as but not limited to, poor customer service, change in
borrower benefits or rates, etc.).

Make School requests updated information from the lenders on the preferred lender list periodically.
The evaluation process for a lender to be added to and remain on the list includes, but is not
limited to a review of the fees associated with the loan, the competitiveness of interest rates, the
customer service provided, the electronic application and processing capabilities, the borrower
benefits that differentiate the loan product from others, historical use by Make School students,
lender reputation, and/or any unique factors that separate the loan product and/or lender from
others.

### Expanded Income-Based Repayment (EIBR)

Direct Federal Loans come with built-in Income-Based Repayment for students, resulting in payments
being capped at 10% of monthly discretionary income. This provides part of the protection for
underemployed and unemployed graduates. The problem we are solving is that all other student loans
(Parent Plus, Private) don’t come with built-in Income-Based repayments options. So while you could
reduce your Direct Federal Loan payments to $0 if you are unemployed, at other colleges you would
still have to pay monthly for the rest of your loans. Not so at Make School.

Make School is creating and funding an Extended Income-Based Repayment (EIBR) protection plan to
cover Parent Plus and
[private loans](../student-financial-aid-policies/student-private-or-personal-loans) to create full
protection for underemployed and unemployed graduates.

The EIBR protection plan is designed as an extension of the Federal IBR program to apply to all
types of loans not covered by the Federal IBR and preserve the protection and incentive alignment of
previous payment plan options. The EIBR protection plan will cap total student loan payments
(combined federal, parent plus, and private) to the following percentages of monthly gross income.

| Graduate Annual Gross Income | EIBR Cap |
| :--------------------------: | :------: |
|            $60K+             |   20%    |
|           $50-59K            |   18%    |
|           $40-49K            |   15%    |
|           $30-39K            |   10%    |
|           $20-29K            |    6%    |
|           &lt;$20K           |    0%    |

_Disclaimer: the stated EIBR caps apply to students enrolling in Fall 2020. These caps are subject
to change by a few percentage points for future cohorts as we collect data on how the program is
working and what challenges surface._

Any debt obligation beyond the cap will be paid out by the EIBR protection plan. The EIBR protection
plan is funded by 10% of tuition revenue collected by Make School, placed into a protected fund with
transparent financials and independent control. Make School itself is a guarantor for the fund and
will top it up if ever necessary.

We expect that around 80% of students will qualify for the cheaper funding options, government and
private loans, to fund their Make School education. For those who don’t, we still plan on offering
tuition gap funding. To receive tuition gap funding, students will be required to apply for these
new funding options first\*.

\* **If you have significant existing debt that would result in unaffordable monthly payments after
Make School, you may be denied for both loans and tuition gap funding. Please contact us immediately
at [admissions@makeschool.com](mailto:admissions@makeschool.com) if you have more than $7,500 in
outstanding debt. This is not a hard cut-off, just an amount that will trigger a conversation about
the best financial options for you.**

### Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) for Financial Aid

Federal Regulations require Make School to establish, publish and apply the requirements of
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) for Financial Aid eligibility. This policy pertains to
Institutional, Federal and/or State Financial Aid and is separate from the Academic Policies
established by Make School. The policies for Satisfactory Academic Progress at Make School are
aligned with all
[Dominican Satisfactory Academic Progress](https://www.dominican.edu/admissions/tuition-and-financial-aid/financial-aid-policies/satisfactory-academic-progress)
policies while also addressing the unique term schedule and grading policies of the Make School
Program.

#### SAP Evaluation

Make School is responsible for measuring and enforcing Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)
requirements to ensure Financial Aid recipients’ progress towards graduation. To be eligible for
Financial Aid, a student must be in good academic standing and making satisfactory progress towards
the completion of a degree within a maximum time-frame. All enrolled students are evaluated after
each semester to ensure that the minimum requirements are being met. Students failing to meet the
minimum requirements will be assigned one of the following statuses:

**Financial Aid Warning:** If a student fails to meet the SAP requirements, the student will be
placed on Financial Aid Warning for the following semester (or the next semester that the student
enrolls). While on Financial Aid Warning, the student may retain their Financial Aid eligibility and
receive a Financial Aid Award. At the end of the Financial Aid Warning semester, the student’s
record will be re-evaluated. If the student is meeting the SAP requirements after the Financial Aid
Warning semester, the student may be taken off of Financial Aid Warning and re-establish Financial
Aid eligibility for the following semester (or the next semester that the student enrolls).
Financial Aid Warning is only allowed once, during the student’s degree tenure at Make School.

**Financial Aid Suspension:** If a student fails to meet the SAP requirements for any semester after
the initial Financial Aid Warning semester, the student will be placed on Financial Aid Suspension
and will not be eligible for Federal, State and/or Institutional Financial Aid. The status of
Financial Aid Suspension will remain in place until the student is again meeting the SAP
requirements or the student has filed a successful SAP Appeal.

#### SAP Guidelines

The academic year at Make School consists of three semesters (fall, spring and summer) that are
subdivided into terms and intensives. Terms last 7 weeks and intensives last either 1 or 2 weeks.
This is shown in the table below.

| Fall (14 wk)  |              |               | Spring (14 wk) |               |              |               | Summer (9 wk) |              |
| :-----------: | :----------: | :-----------: | :------------: | :-----------: | :----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :----------: |
| Term 1 (7 wk) | Int 1 (1 wk) | Term 2 (7 wk) |  Int 2 (1 wk)  | Term 3 (7 wk) | Int 3 (2 wk) | Term 4 (7 wk) | Term 5 (7 wk) | Int 4 (2 wk) |

Make School is an accelerated program and full time students enroll in 12 units per term, 24 units
per semester for fall and spring, and 15 units during the summer semester.

If a student changes majors or academic programs, all units reflected on the transcript for that
academic level will be included in the qualitative and quantitative measurements.

#### Qualitative Standard

Make School uses a pass / fail grading structure and does not issue a GPA. A passing grade in a
course is computed through a combination of assessment measures including exams, assignments and
learning outcome rubrics. A passing grade is equivalent to an A, B or C in a standard grading model
and students do not pass nor receive credit for courses completed with any grade lower than C.

Students will be evaluated against the following comparable assessment measured against a norm at
each evaluation period.

- For the purposes of Satisfactory Academic Progress, students are expected to pass at least half of
  their courses attempted in each evaluation period which is considered equivalent to a C average in
  a standard GPA model.

  - Grades of W or F do not count as a Pass and are included in the total number of courses
    attempted.

  - Grades of Incomplete are not included in the total number of courses attempted and do not impact
    calculation results.

- Students may repeat a course for which the student has previously earned credit(s) no more than
  one (1) time. The repeated course will be counted in the GPA calculation for the student one time.
  Any course repeated more than once will not be counted for GPA purposes

#### Quantitative Standard

Students are required to maintain a minimum quantitative Completion Rate of 67% in order to remain
eligible for Financial Aid. Completion Rate is calculated by dividing a student’s total earned
credits by the student’s total attempted credits.

- Attempted credit is defined as any credit(s) the student remains enrolled in after the Census
  Date, including credits that a student withdraws from

- Courses of Incomplete, Withdrawn, and Fail do not count as earned credits.

- Only courses with a Pass count as earned credits.

  - EX: A student is enrolled in four courses (12 credits) after Census Date. They Pass three
    courses and Fail one course. The completion rate is 9/12 = 75%. The student has met the
    completion rate criteria.

  - EX: A student is enrolled in four courses (12 credits) after Census Date. They Pass two courses,
    Withdraw from one course and Fail one course. The completion rate is 6/12 = 50%. The student has
    **not** met the completion rate criteria.

#### Maximum Time-Frame

Students are required to complete all degree requirements within 150% of the published program
length. The published program length of the Bachelor’s Degree program is 124 credits, 150% of this
is 186 credits.

- If it has been determined that a student will be unable to complete the program within the maximum
  time-frame, either by falling below the pace standard or it becomes mathematically impossible to
  complete their program within the maximum time-frame, the student is not eligible for Federal
  and/or State Aid

- If there are mitigating circumstances that affect the student’s ability to complete the program
  within the maximum time-frame a student may appeal to allow for additional semesters to complete
  the program

#### Repeat Coursework

If a student has received a passing grade for a course, Federal Aid may be applied to the payment of
that course for one additional semester. Repeated courses beyond the initial retake will be excluded
from the enrollment calculation. Also, repeated courses will be counted as hours attempted but not
earned when calculating the percentage of courses completed. Repeated courses will affect the
qualitative, quantitative, and time-frame measurements even if they are not eligible courses to
establish Financial Aid enrollment status.

- Only courses taken at Make School will be looked at under this policy.

- Courses that are available to take for credit more than one time are considered repeated for the
  purpose of this policy only if they are taken one time more than the number of times they can be
  taken for credit.

  - EX: SUP 2.1 may be taken twice for credit so taking it a third time would qualify as repeated
    coursework.

#### Incomplete Coursework

For purposes of evaluating SAP, grades of Incomplete count as attempted units, but not earned units
for the Quantitative Standard. Therefore an Incomplete grade may qualify the student for Financial
Aid Warning or Financial Aid Suspension until a grade has been posted.

#### SAP Appeal Process

Students who have been placed on Financial Aid Suspension have the right to appeal their status to
the Office of Financial Aid. SAP Appeals must be based on extenuating circumstances that seriously
affected the student’s academic performance.

Examples of Extenuating circumstances include, but are not limited to:

- Death in the family

- Disabling illness or injury to the student or immediate family member (that required the student’s
  care)

- Emotional or mental health issue of the student that required professional care

- Other extenuating circumstances that were beyond the student’s control

Appeals will not be accepted for any of the following reasons:

- Lack of knowledge/understanding of the SAP Policy

- Medical appeals for illness/injury/hospitalization that do not coincide with the semester(s) of
  sub-standard progress

- Work/Scheduling conflicts (including voluntary overtime)

- Acclimation issues with regard to being in a university setting

- Student has submitted a previous SAP appeal, regardless of reason, and the student is still not
  meeting SAP requirements

- Student is repeating courses to increase the student’s GPA or the student is taking courses for
  degree requirements outside the student’s current program

- Student is taking pre-requisite(s) for a degree program for which the student is not currently
  enrolled in

The SAP Committee will thoroughly review each appeal. If the SAP Committee needs clarification or
additional information, the committee will contact the student directly. Any requested documentation
is to be submitted as soon as possible. SAP Appeal decisions are final and will be emailed to the
student within 3-5 weeks of submission. Students are encouraged to submit their SAP appeal and
documentation as early as possible to allow on-time disbursement of aid if the appeal is approved.

## Campus Policies

### Campus Policies Overview

The policies included in this section of the Catalog are specifically campus-related. Students
should be aware of and abide by these policies at all times.

### Student’s Rights, Responsibilities, and Addressing Grievances

All students are responsible for reviewing and upholding all of Make School’s policies as defined in
this Catalog. In an effort to promote a welcoming and safe learning environment for all community
members, students may report concerns or complaints at any time by completing the
[Student Reporting Form](make.sc/student-reporting-form). This form, and the information provided in
the form will remain private to the best of Make School’s ability. Depending upon the nature of the
complaint, anonymity may not be guaranteed, but we will do our best to protect the privacy of all
parties involved. Make School does not tolerate any form of retaliation. The form can be used to
report concerns regarding a violation of the
[Code of Conduct](../conduct-policies/code-of-conduct-equity-inclusion) or a concern regarding the
conduct of an instructor or staff member.

The student may also choose to speak with their instructor, coach, or a member of the Student
Experience Team to address the concern and complete
the[ Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form) with the staff member or
instructor’s support. All concerns or complaints are addressed in a timely, private manner. Make
School staff may escalate the concern or complaint to the Dean or Director of Student and Academic
Affairs as appropriate.

The process for reporting, reviewing, and maintaining grievance records is as follows:

1. The student submits a written complaint via the
   [Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form).

2. The submission is reviewed by the Director of Student and Academic Affairs (Director) or their
   designee within one business day of the submission. The Director will follow-up with the student
   to confirm the complaint has been reviewed and provide next steps.

   1. Make School will first attempt to resolve the issue through a restorative justice process,
      however;

   2. Some complaints, depending on the nature of the report, will warrant an informal or formal
      resolution process as determined by the Director and described in the
      [Code of Conduct](../conduct-policies/code-of-conduct-equity-inclusion) policy.

   3. Complaints regarding a potential violation of Title IX, Hate Speech Policy, Retaliation, or
      Hazing are not eligible for the restorative justice process.

3. Through the support of the Director (student-related issues) or the Dean (instructor or
   staff-related issues), the parties involved will proceed through the designated process to
   resolve the issue.

   4. Most issues will be resolved through a Participation Improvement Plan (PIP).

4. If applicable, students may pursue the appeal process as described in the
   [Code of Conduct](../conduct-policies/code-of-conduct-equity-inclusion).

5. Records relating to the initial complaint, resolution process, and appeals will be maintained for
   up to seven years after the resolution of the incident. All records are
   [FERPA](../academic-policies/family-educational-rights-privacy-act-of-1974-ferpa) protected.

Students are encouraged to first attempt to utilize Make School’s grievance procedures to seek
resolution to their concern or complaint, but are not required to do so. Students have the right to
seek redress from the Bureau of Private Postsecondary Education at 2535 Capitol Oaks Drive, Suite
400, Sacramento, CA 95833, www.bppe.ca.gov, toll‐free telephone number 888‐370 ‐7589 or by fax
916‐263‐1897.

### Campus Access Policy

Make School is open during typical business operating hours (Monday through Friday, 9:00am to
6:00pm). Students have access to 555 Post Street from 8:00am-8:30pm Monday through Friday and
9:00am-8:00pm Saturday and Sunday. There may be occasional evening and weekend events hosted by Make
School or other companies at 555 Post Street. All events will have assigned student "Openers" and
“Closers,” who are trained on alarm codes and building safety precautions. Events will also have an
identified Make School staff member to be “on call” in case of emergency.

Guest Access

Make School is open to current and prospective students, as well as guests. Guests and visitors are
welcome to visit the campus during normal business operating hours (Monday through Friday, 8:00am to
8:30pm), but must check in upon entry. Guests are also welcome to attend any Make School event that
is open to the public. Please note that students are responsible for the actions and behaviors of
their on-campus guests at all times.

Conference Rooms

The campus conference rooms are prioritized for use by Make School staff. Students are encouraged to
work in the open space work environment to learn from one another and better collaborate. If a
student needs to use a conference room, they will need to reserve the room through a Make School
staff member.

Shared Work Spaces

Make School is a shared open space work environment, which means it is especially important to
respect everyone’s physical space and be cognizant of your surroundings. Respectful action includes
being quiet in designated quiet areas to allow fellow students to focus, and sharing Make
School-owned equipment when necessary. Moreover, It is everyone’s responsibility to keep the space
clean and uncluttered.

Kitchen

The kitchen is a shared space for all students and staff. All members must clean up after themselves
immediately when using the kitchen, which includes: putting dishes in the dishwasher, picking up all
trash, wiping up any surfaces used, and cleaning up any trash or debris on the floor. If students
store food in the kitchen, they must abide by the Food Storage Policy posted on the refrigerator.
Per this policy, all students must:

1. Label all stored food with their name and initial date of storage.

2. Remove any of the week’s food items from the refrigerator by 5:00pm on Friday.

3. Be respectful of others by consuming only your food items or community-specified items.

### Poster/Posting Policy

All posted materials must be approved by the Student Experience Team before being hung around
campus. All posters, notices, or flyers must be affixed to the wall or other fixtures via painter’s
tape (blue or green) so as to not damage property. No materials may be posted on doors or windows,
whether inside or outside of the building, and students are responsible for removing their outdated
posters posting sites. Make School reserves the right to remove any posters deemed to be offensive
in nature, or those advertising events and/or products not in line with the _Code of Conduct, Equity
& Inclusion_.

### Insurance & Health Requirements

Make School expects all students to be covered by a medical insurance plan. Because healthcare costs
can become quite expensive, having an adequate plan that is accepted by local providers is very
important. In addition to requiring medical insurance, we also require the following forms to be
completed by all students:

- [Medical History Form](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jJQYXOpTKPnirWlC0aCzfwMmWbmC3C7a/view)

- [Immunization & TB Screening Form](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mgxXLFwkNxcq-Is8crbZMUMvc5oEmT6N/view)

- [Health Requirements Checklist](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IiTDCfFZqoPXSdgUOKJUaBjrTPO2yWKJ/view?usp=sharing)

All completed forms must be submitted to the
[Office of the Registrar](mailto:registrar@makeschool.com).

### Student Identification Card Policy

All Make School students are expected to obtain a Student ID Card, which includes a photograph and
student identification number, from the Student Experience Team. Because this ID Card doubles as the
key that provides access to campus, it is especially important that students carry their card with
them at all times!

If a student happens to lose their ID card, they must contact the
[Operations Team](mailto:eric@makeschool.com) to secure a new one. When the new card is issued, the
previous card will be deactivated and the student requesting the card will be charged a $10
replacement fee. A Stripe invoice will be sent to the student via email.

If a student leaves Make School in good academic and behavioral standing, they can continue using
this ID card to access the building and community. If a student leaves and is not in good standing,
their card is deactivated and they are not invited to continue engaging with the Make School
community.

### Service Animal & Emotional Support Animal Policies

Please note that dogs are the only approved Service or Emotional Support Animal (ESA) species
permitted on the Make School campus. While dog breed and size are not inhibited in any way, all
other policies detailed below still apply. For protocol related to Service Animals / ESAs in
residences, please check with your housing provider for their specific regulations. ESAs are not
permitted in Housing for Make School Students at 851 California Street, per the property owner.

Service Animal Policy

The ADA defines a Service Animal as any dog (or in some cases other animals) that is individually
trained to work specifically for a person with a physical, sensory, psychiatric, or other
disability.

In compliance with applicable law, Service Animals are generally allowed in buildings, classrooms,
meetings, dining areas, activities and events when the animal is accompanied by an individual with a
disability who indicates the Service Animal is trained to and does provide a specific service to
them that is directly related to their disability.

Service Animals may not be permitted when the animal poses a substantial and direct threat to health
or safety or when the presence of the animal constitutes a fundamental alteration to the nature of
the program or service.

In situations where it is not obvious that the animal is a Service Animal, staff may ask only two
specific questions: (1) is the animal required because of a disability, and (2) what work or task
has the animal been trained to perform? Staff are not allowed to request any documentation for the
Service Animal, require that the Service Animal demonstrate its task, or inquire about the nature of
the person's disability.

Emotional Support Animal (ESA) Policy

Emotional Support Animals (ESAs) are animals that provide emotional support which alleviates one or
more identified symptoms or effects of an individual’s existing disability. Animals whose sole
function is to provide comfort or emotional support are Emotional Support Animals, not Service
Animals.

A student seeking to bring an ESA onto the Make School campus, must make a formal request to
Operations personnel. The request should be made at least 30 days before the start of the semester
or academic year for which the presence of an ESA is requested. Documentation indicating the need
for an ESA must be current, presented on professional letterhead, and signed by the licensed
provider. This documentation must also specifically prescribe an ESA and note the type of animal
that is recommended.

In addition, before a specific ESA is approved, the Handler must submit documentation from a
licensed veterinarian that the ESA is in good health and that its required immunizations are up-
to-date. As part of the approval process, the individual requesting the ESA may be required to meet
with Make School representatives. Make School will provide written notification of animal-specific
approval of an ESA request. If an individual intends to replace an approved ESA with a new animal, a
new request must be made.

Need to register a Service Animal or Emotional Support Animal with Make School? Complete the
[Service Animal Agreement](make.sc/service-animal-agreement) or
[Emotional Support Animal Agreement](make.sc/esa-agreement) Forms.

### Information Technology

Information Technology is a key component to students’ success at Make School. We expect all
students to conduct themselves in a respectful, inclusive manner when communicating online and
through social media.

#### GSuite Account

All Make School students will receive an official Make School email address, which should be used
for all communication while you’re a student. This email address will be your legal first name, a
period, and your legal last name, followed by @students.makeschool.com (e.g.,
john.doe@students.makeschool.com). This account is part of the Google Suite, which also gives access
to all administrative Google interfaces (i.e., Google Drive, Google Docs, etc.).

#### GitHub Account

[GitHub](https://github.com/Product-College-Courses/) is our Learning Management System for the
technical courses at Make School. Be sure to register for an account prior to your first day of
classes.

#### Slack Account

[Slack](http://slack.com) is the main platform Make School uses for informal communication.
Announcements, reminders about action items, and community conversations are shared via this
service. It is important that you are attentive to your Slack channels and messages, as this is
often the fastest way to share information with colleagues and Make School staff. Students are
automatically invited to Slack upon enrollment. To access the student Slack workspace on your
computer or mobile device, open the email invitation sent to your Make School email account and
click "join." Slack will then guide you through the process of setting up your account.

#### Social Media Accounts

Make School has a robust [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/makeschool/) and
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/school/makeschool/) network! **Facebook** is used to enhance
internal communications among the Make School community. You can join the following Make School
groups on Facebook:

- [Make School Community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/MakeSchoolCommunity/)

- [Make School ](https://www.facebook.com/makeschool/)

- [Make School Women](https://www.facebook.com/groups/916655231787097/)

**LinkedIn** is a tool to connect internally with staff and students, as well as externally with
hiring partners, industry contacts, and other Make School affiliates. It is highly encouraged for
you to add connections and utilize this platform. LinkedIn is the number one way recruits reach out
to you when looking to hire, and it’s important that your LinkedIn profile is up-to-date with your
current projects, experience and education, and a professional headshot. We provide support to
students to create an effective LinkedIn profile.

## Conduct Policies

### Conduct Policies Overview

The policies described in this section of the Catalog are especially important for students to
understand, as violating these policies may result in the
[Formal Resolution](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct) process. Students are
expected to follow these policies at all times. Reports regarding potential violations of these
conduct policies can be submitted using the
[Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form).

### Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion

Make School nurtures attitudes and behaviors that promote global awareness, inclusivity, and respect
for the dignity of each person regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age,
socioeconomic status, culture, political conviction, religion, or disability.

We are committed to creating an environment in which every individual can work, study, and live
without feeling excluded, unsafe, or harassed. As such, we encourage speech and actions that support
this mission and the identities of our community members, thus emboldening us to thrive as both a
community and as individuals.

You will see our commitment to these tenets at play in our academics in the following ways:

- All members of the College community consider diversity constructively in all planning, policy,
  decision-making, procedural, academic, and administrative operations throughout the College.

- All course curriculum content, pedagogy, syllabi structure, assignments, grading, and learning
  outcomes are built to ensure it does not marginalize identities or implicitly identify one kind of
  experience, one culture, one nation, one body of art and literature as normative. All curriculums
  recognize a breath of identities, worldviews, and approaches.

- All members of the College community promote an on-campus environment that values equity and
  access of opportunity for all of its participants regardless of background, nationality, culture,
  religion, class, race, ethnicity, sex, gender, sexual orientation, and disability.

All Make School students, staff, and visitors are required to follow the tenets of the _Code of
Conduct, Equity & Inclusion_ in all Make School communities (i.e., on campus, online and on social
media, in student housing, etc.).

### Disciplinary Action: Academic & Conduct

This section of the Catalog outlines resolution of policy violations, whether academic or
conduct-related.

#### Informal Resolution Processes

Informal Resolution is used when the parties agree to resolve interpersonal conflicts or a violation
of the Code of Conduct through conflict resolution (mediation, restorative justice, etc.), or where
the responding party accepts responsibility for violating policy, or when the Dean, Director of
Student and Academic Affairs, or their representative, can resolve the matter informally by
providing remedies to resolve the situation. In any case, the Dean, Director, or their
representative will determine if Informal Resolution will be an option.

It is not necessary to pursue Informal Resolution first in order to pursue Formal Resolution, and
any party participating in Informal Resolution can stop the process at any time and request the
Formal Resolution process., If an Informal Resolution fails after the fact, Formal Resolution may be
pursued (see below).

_PLEASE NOTE: Significant or egregious violations of policies or procedures may not be eligible for
Informal Resolution (as determined by the Dean or Director). Reports of violations of the
Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, or Retalation Policy will be addressed through the
Formal Resoltuion Process. _

#### Verbal or Written Warnings

Informal Resolutions may include a verbal or written warning from the Dean or the Director of
Student and Academic Affairs. These warnings serve as notice to the student of the violation of the
Code of Conduct and function as a record of the behavior. Verbal or Written Warnings are an interim
measure prior to a Performance Improvement Plan.

#### Formal Resolutions: Performance Improvement Plans

When a student is alleged to have violated academic or behavioral policy at Make School, the matter
must be reported to and investigated by the appropriate conduct administrator. In most cases, the
administrator will be the Dean or the Director of Student and Academic Affairs, but can also be
their designee.

The investigation process typically consists of the following (not necessarily in this order):

- Written notification to the student (via email) of the alleged violation of policy;

- An interview with the parties involved in the alleged violation, and any witnesses who may have
  knowledge of the incident or who can provide additional information;

- A summary of the evidence gathered that is shared with the student alleged to have violated
  policy.

- A determination of factual findings and notification of appropriate sanctions and/or follow-up
  action.

Once the investigation is complete and the student has been notified of the violated policy, the
Conduct Administrator will initiate a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) except in cases where
Alternate Conduct Action is required as noted below.

A PIP is a specific plan developed on an individual basis to set clearly articulated goals or
objectives to improve performance. It includes check-ins, transparent expectations, and closely
monitored progress by the conduct administrator and the student’s coach. There are two types of PIPs
based on the type of policy violation: behavioural or academic:

- A **Conduct PIP** issued for Conduct Violations listed in this Course Catalog & Student Handbook.

- An **Academic PIP** is issued for either academic violations listed in the Course Catalog &
  Student Handbook, or when a student is not making Satisfactory Academic Progress.

While on a PIP, a student may be considered not to be in good standing and may have certain
restrictions related to their participation in select programming and events. Examples include, but
not limited to, field trips, mock technical interviews, access to new industry contacts, student
jobs (i.e., Teaching or Resident Assistantships), participation in Student Council, and outcomes
referrals to partner companies. Any such restrictions will be noted in the PIP.

A PIP typically is in effect for a specific time period (usually 30 days) and the student
performance will be re-evaluated at the end of that time period. If a PIP does not result in the
student meeting the goals or objectives, the student may be dismissed or suspended from Make School
either immediately or at the end of the term as denoted in the PIP. Typically, a dismissed student
is not allowed to return to Make School, and a suspended student may be allowed to return by
reapplying the following year.

**Alternate Conduct Action:** Reports of violations of certain policies (i.e., violations of Sexual
Misconduct policies or violation of the Alcohol, Drug & Smoking Policies) may require alternate
conduct action.

#### Request for Appeal of Conduct Action

A request for an appeal of the findings and/or sanctions is subject to the grounds outlined below.
All original sanctions imposed remain in effect through determination of the appeal, and both
parties should be timely informed of the status of the request for appeal, the status of the appeal
consideration, and the result of the appeal decision. Requests for Appeal must be submitted in
writing to the Dean of Make School within five (5) business days of receipt of the
findings/sanctions being issued.

Appeal requests are limited to the following grounds:

- A procedural or substantive error occurred that significantly impacted the outcome of the hearing
  (e.g. substantiated bias, material deviation from established procedures, etc.). A summary
  explaining the error must be included with the request for an appeal.

- To consider new evidence,unavailable during the original hearing or investigation, that could
  substantially impact the original finding or sanction. A summary of this new evidence and its
  potential impact must be included with the request for appeal.

- The sanctions imposed are substantially outside the parameters or guidelines set by the University
  for this type of offense or the cumulative conduct record of the responding party. A summary
  explaining the disproportion of the sanctions must be included with the request for an appeal.

Upon receipt of the Request for Appeal, the Dean will designate an Appellate Officer who will
consider the appeal request and all submitted summaries, evaluate the merit of a request for an
appeal in light of the circumstances and the Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion, and make a
determination on whether enough information exists to warrant an appeal review:

If an Appeal Review is Denied: the finding/sanction stands as-is.

If an Appeal Review is Granted: the Appellate Officer will engage in a thorough review of the appeal
request (including the submitted summaries), the original record (including the investigator’s
report), and any other relevant information, and will take one or a combination of the following
actions:

- Uphold the findings and/or sanctions outlined in the Administrative Disposition;

- Modify the findings and/or sanctions outlined in the Administrative Disposition;

- Dismiss the findings and/or sanctions outlined in the Administrative Disposition.

The decision of the Appellate Officer will be considered final and binding for all parties involved.

### Alcohol, Drug & Smoking

Smoking and the use of substances (alcohol or drugs), including marijuana, is not allowed on Make
School’s campus and in the residence hall(s). All students and staff who wish to smoke any
substance, or vape, must do so outdoors, following San Francisco city ordinance which requires
smokers to stand at least 20 feet from a building’s entrance. It is also not permissible for a
student to post imagery on social media accounts, which depict the use of these substances while
located on Make School property.

If it is determined that a student is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or has been smoking
or vaping on campus, any related contraband will be confiscated and the standard
[Performance Improvement Plan](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct) process
will be followed.

### Communications Expectations

Students are expected to engage in professional conduct through all communication mediums with
students, staff, and instructors. Professional communication at Make School is defined as:

- Uses inclusive language, and is aligned with the Code of Conduct

- Open to discussion and free-flow of ideas

- Timely In both giving and receiving information

Learning how to professionally and effectively communicate is a key component of a student’s
educational experience at Make School. In addition to keeping staff and instructors up-to-date on
anything that may impact their ability to fully participate in the classroom or other school
activities, students are responsible for regularly checking their Make School email and Slack, and
responding to correspondence within one business day of outreach by instructors or staff.

Staff and instructors may reach out to a student when they are not attending class or are
participating in school activities to ensure the student is safe and/or well. It is an expectation
that students respond to a Make School employee when one attempts to contact them. A lack of
response, commonly referred to as "ghosting," may lead to concern for the student’s health or
safety.

A student who consistently does not respond to instructors or staff may result in Make School
conducting wellness checks or reaching out to the student’s emergency contact to verify the
student’s safety and wellbeing.

### Disorderly Conduct

Students are expected to conduct themselves in a professional manner at all times. Make School
prohibits disorderly conduct, defined as: creating a public disturbance, issuing threats or taking
of violence against a person or groups, reckless behavior that creates an unsafe environment in the
classroom or living space, damage to a person’s property, conduct that interrupts or interferes with
the normal operation of Make School, student learning opportunities or Make School sponsored events
or activities that take place on or off campus.

### Family Parental Notification

Make School is committed to fostering the holistic development of all students. Part of this
development process entails students being autonomous in their decision-making and thinking
critically about certain choices and actions. However, there are times when these choices and
actions pose a significant health risk to the student or endangers the welfare of the college
community. If a student chooses to act in a way that endangers themselves and/or puts the campus
community in harm’s way, Make School reserves the right to contact parents, guardians, or
student-designated emergency contacts to discuss concerns and explore possible resolutions (per the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974). In the event Make School contacts a student’s
family to address life or safety concerns, Make School will inform the student of the disclosure

### Hate Speech

Make School’s desire to foster a professional environment that honors the freedom of expression is
equally balanced with pursuit to create an inclusive living and learning environment. All members of
the Make School community are responsible for expressing themselves in a manner that is respectful
of others’ backgrounds, identities, and life experiences. This policy applies to all modes of
communication, including in-person, online (email, Slack, etc.), and visual media (mems, gifs, etc.)

### Hazardous Materials

Make School may use chemicals and substances that require special handling, storage, deployment, and
disposal in our maintenance and cleaning functions. Federal regulations and our local OSHA
authorities require that the campus implement a Hazard Communication Program to alert our campus to
the presence of these substances and any potential risk of exposure. Should you see any procedures
that appear questionable, products in use whose properties you question, or the mishandling of a
chemical, please immediately bring the matter to the attention of the Operations Team. The sale,
manufacture, or unauthorized possession/maintenance of hazardous or toxic substances on Make School
property is prohibited.

### Hazing

Make School prohibits all forms of Hazing. Not only is hazing a crime, it is antithetical to the
community values of Make School. For this reason, we take a strong stance against hazing, defined
as:

- Any behavior or action required to join or be considered a part of a student group, recognized or
  not recognized by Make School;

- The misuse of one’s authority as determined by their leadership position, age or classification;

- Causing physical, emotional, or mental harm to another person for the purpose of affiliating an
  individual to a community;

- Conditions set to continue be a member of a student group or community;

- "Traditions" that involve putting oneself or others at risk or engaging activities without one’s
  consent.

Reporting Hazing

If you have been hazed, have witnessed or are aware of behavior that may be considered hazing, you
must report the incident(s) to
the[ Director of Student and Academic Affairs](mailto:michelle.blackburn@makeschool.com) or use
[Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form). In the event the hazing activity
has put a student’s safety at risk or is an emergency, you should contact 911 to get emergency
medical attention.

Incidents of hazing are not eligible for an Informal Resolution of the
[Student Conduct Process](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct).

### Medical Amnesty

Student health and safety are of primary concern at Make School. As such, in situations where there
is a medical emergency as a result of violation of policy (e.g., alcohol or drug use), Make School
encourages individuals to seek medical assistance for themselves or others. If an individual seeks
medical attention, Make School may not pursue student conduct sanctions against the student for
violations of these policies or the _Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion_. Additionally, those
students who assist in obtaining medical attention for others may not receive sanctions for
violations of student policy or the _Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion_. This policy does not
grant amnesty to those who are charged with possession and intent to distribute drugs.

This policy does not preclude sanctions due to any other violations of the _Code of Conduct, Equity
& Inclusion_ or student policy. Likewise, it does not prevent action by police or other law
enforcement personnel.

### Off-Campus Conduct

All students are expected to follow local, state and federal laws at all times. Make School may
determine, on a case-by-case basis, to address off-campus violations of local, state, and federal
through the student conduct process if the violation poses a health or safety risk to the Make
School community or is detrimental to the educational interest of others. Any student conduct
process will be independent from criminal proceedings and will not be impacted by the outcomes of
the legal process.

In the event off-campus conduct results in an arrest or criminal proceedings, students are
responsible for obtaining bail funding and legal counsel independently.

### Non-Retaliation

No individual shall be penalized in any way for having reported or threatened to report any
violation of procedure, policy, or non-compliance with the _Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion_, or
for cooperating with or participating in any grievance investigation. Furthermore, no individual
shall be penalized for reporting incidents of discrimination, harassment, or sexual misconduct.
Retaliation by any member of the community against such an individual is prohibited, and shall be
considered a serious violation of Make School policy. Retaliation includes threats, intimidation,
reprisals, and any adverse actions related to an individual’s employment or Education.

### Title IX: Understanding Harassment & Sexual Misconduct

[Title IX](https://www.dominican.edu/about/safety-and-emergency-information/sexual-misconduct-title-ix-and-discrimination)
protects students enrolled in educational programs or activities from gender discrimination,
harassment, and sexual misconduct. More specifically, it protects against any conduct that has the
intent or effect of unreasonably interfering with one’s performance at Make School, or that creates
an intimidating, hostile, and pervasive environment. Examples of misconduct include (but are not
limited to) offensive verbal comments, inappropriate physical contact, deliberate intimidation,
sexual images in public spaces, and exclusionary or offensive jokes. Harassment does not need to be
recognized as unwanted or unwelcome by anyone other than the person being harassed.

All Make School designated Title IX investigators have received
[training](https://icslawyer.com/posting-for-review-higher-ed-investigator-level-1-two-day/) as
required by OCR in §106.45(b)(10)(i)(D).

#### Reporting Misconduct

Make School refuses to accept any violation of the _Code of Conduct, Equity & Inclusion_, including
violations of our standard Conduct Policies and
[Title IX Policy](https://www.dominican.edu/sites/default/files/2020-11/title_ix_policy_dhr_policy_for_employees-after-aug14.pdf).
Those asked to stop inappropriate behaviors are expected to comply immediately and may face further
disciplinary action (i.e., being removed from community spaces, etc.). To keep our community safe,
we encourage reporting conduct violations, and will maintain reporter privacy to the extent
permissible by law and policy. Conduct violations can be reported via our
[Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form) or emailed directly to our
[Title IX Coordinator](mailto:student.affairs@makeschool.com).

- **Title IX Coordinator:** Carmen Ye ([carmen@makeschool.com](mailto:carmen@makeschool.com))

- **Lead Investigator:** Michelle Lessly Backburn
  ([michelle.blackburn@makeschool.com](mailto:michelle.blackburn@makeschool.com))

- **Decision Making Administrator (DMA):** Anne Spalding
  ([anne@makeschool.com](mailto:anne@makeschool.com))

#### Reporting Options and Resources

For all Title IX disclosures and incident reports, medical and counseling support or resources will
be offered, and interim remedies may be made available (e.g., room or class schedule change for
respondent or no contact order) to both the Complainant (person who was subject to the alleged
violation) and the Respondent (person alleged of the violation). Based upon the nature of the
incident, Make School students may be subject to the Title IX processes as described below. A report
of this nature will be reflected in Make School’s annual crime statistics if it meets reporting
criteria.

|                                  Options                                  |                                                Investigation & Disciplinary Process                                                 |                               Assistance Reporting to Local Police\*                                |
| :-----------------------------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
|       Reporting the assault and pursuing Make School charges only.        |                Make School will proceed with an investigation and disciplinary process as permitted by Federal Law.                 |                                                                                                     |
|         Reporting the assault and pursuing criminal charges only.         | If made aware of the incident, Make School will proceed with an investigation and disciplinary process as permitted by Federal Law. | Make School will provide assistance, if requested, to make a report to the local Police Department. |
| Reporting the assault and pursuing both Make School and criminal charges. |                Make School will proceed with an investigation and disciplinary process as permitted by Federal Law.                 | Make School will provide assistance, if requested, to make a report to the local Police Department. |
|        Reporting the assault, but choosing not to pursue charges.         |                    Make School will proceed with an investigation, and, if appropriate, a disciplinary process.                     |                                                                                                     |

\*In certain instances, the University may need to report conduct to law enforcement authorities
even when the complainant has not decided to do so.

The processes listed above may occur simultaneously, although the Make School’s disciplinary
processes and the Criminal process occur independently of each other.

#### Responding to Misconduct

In the event Make School has actual knowledge of a potential violation of the Conduct Policies and
Title IX Policy, Make School will most likely take the actions (not necessarily in this order):

- Identify policies implicated by the alleged misconduct.

- Assess any potential health/safety concerns of parties involved and initiate or assist with any
  necessary interim actions or remedial measures for both the Complainant and the Respondent.

- Provide an advisor, if needed by either party.

- Conduct an immediate inquiry to determine if there is reasonable cause the responding party may
  have violated this policy.

- Prepare the initial Notice of Investigation (NOI) on the basis of the preliminary inquiry.

- Commence a thorough, reliable, and impartial investigation and interview all relevant individuals
  and conduct follow-up interviews as necessary in a promptly manner.

- Provide regular status updates to the parties throughout the investigation.

- Write an executive report summarizing the investigation, supporting evidence, and list of
  witnesses whose information will be used to render a finding. Parties will have 10 days to review
  the executive report when it is completed.

- Submit the Executive Report to the Decision-Making Administrators for review.

- Conduct a live hearing with the opportunity for cross-examination.

- The Decision-Making Administrators determine if the evidence supports a finding of a policy
  violation and, if so, issue appropriate sanctions, with undue delay to each party. _In cases
  involving students where the potential outcomes may be severe or significant (e.g., suspension or
  expulsion), the Decision-Making Administrators will employ a hearing panel format to render
  findings and decisions._

- Review and determine appeal requests, when applicable.

### Weapons

The possession, use, or sale of items such as fireworks, firearms, explosive devices, metal-tipped
darts, knives, or other potentially dangerous items are not permitted on Make School property.
Persons in violation of this policy are subject to disciplinary and/or legal action.

## Student Services & Resources

### Student Services Overview

This section of the Catalog focuses on any resources or support a student may need. This includes
points of contact for our college team staff, information about student clubs and campus recreation,
alumni relations and career services, and so much more.

### College Team Staff and Instructors

#### Academic Administration

This team is here to make sure your living and learning environment is dynamic, inclusive, and
compliant. The Academic Administrators will help you stay on track for graduation, listen to your
feedback, and work with the College Team to address student needs.

- **Dean:** [Anne Spalding](mailto:anne@makeschool.com), Doctor of Philosophy, University of
  Colorado at Denver, 1998; Master of Science, University of Colorado at Denver, 1996; Bachelor of
  Science, University of Colorado at Denver, 1993 _Instructor and Student Support, Curriculum
  Design, Building the School_

- **Director of Science & Letters:**[Justine Mey](mailto:justine@makeschool.com), Doctor of
  Philosophy in Education, The Gevirtz School of Education, University of California, Santa Barbara,
  2017; Masters of Arts, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA, 2010; Bachelor
  of Arts, Brandeis University, Waltham, MS, 2002

- **Director of Student & Academic Affairs:**
  [Michelle Lessly Blackburn](mailto:student.affairs@makeschool.com), Doctor of Law and Public
  Policy, Northeastern University, 2016; Masters of Education, Abilene Christian University, 2008;
  Bachelor of Arts, Abilene Christian University, 2005 _Student Affairs, Academic Support, Title IX_

- **Registrar, Director of Institutional Research:**
  [Kaleena L.M. Findley](mailto:kaleena@makeschool.com), Master of Science, Touro College, Graduate
  School of Education & Technology (NY), 2009; Bachelor of Arts, Long Island University-CW Post,
  2004

#### Instructors

Our diverse faculty is composed of individuals with recent, relevant software engineering experience
and academic degrees in computer science. Instructors guide students through project-based learning
that promotes both skill development and theoretical understanding in software engineering, computer
science, and agile product development. This team is here to make sure you meet your academic goals
by providing project-based learning opportunities. The Instructors will help you master software
development concepts, provide academic support, and help you grow as an engineer.

- [Adam Braus](mailto:braus@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Arts, St. John’s College, 2008

- [Adriana Gonzalez](mailto:adriana@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Science, Instituto Tecnologico Y
  Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, 2015

- [Dan Morse](mailto:dan@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Business Administration, University of
  Michigan, 2013

- [Dani Roxberry](mailto:dani@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Science, Neumont College of Computer
  Science, 2008

- [Jess Dahmen](mailto:jess.dahmen@makeschool.com), Doctor of Philosophy, Washington State
  University, 2019; Bachelor of Science, Washington State University, 2013

- [Meredith Teo](mailto:meredith@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Science, Harvey Mudd College, 2013

- [Mitchell Hudson](mailto:mitchell@makeschool.com), Bachelor of Fine Arts, San Francisco Art
  Institute, 1989

- [Regina Yoong](mailto:regina@makeschool.com), Doctor of Philosophy in English, Ohio University,
  2020; Master of Arts, University of Malaya, Malaysia, 2017; Bachelor of Arts, UCSI University,
  Malaysia, 2012

#### Curriculum

This team is here to make sure we offer you the best learning experience possible. The Curriculum
team works to ensure what you’re learning in class will help you meet your career goals, is in
keeping with industry best practices, and offers additional learning support.

- [Ian Birnam](mailto:ian@makeschool.com)**,** Bachelor of Arts, University of California at
  Berkeley, 2014

#### Student Experience

This team is here to make sure you have the best experience possible outside the classroom and in
the residence hall. Student Experience will help you become a student leader, feel connected to the
Make School community, and make San Francisco feel like home.

- **Manager:** [Megan Dias](mailto:megan.dias@makeschool.com), Masters of Art, University of the
  Pacific, 2012; Bachelor of Arts, California State University-Chico, 2009

- **Coordinator:** [Lisa Tran](mailto:lisa.tran@makeschool.com), Master of Arts, University of San
  Francisco, 2019; Bachelor of Arts, University of California at Irvine, 2013

#### Student Outcomes

This team is here to make sure you are job ready by the time you graduate. Student Outcomes will
help you get access to internship opportunities, build your professional network, and hone your
interviewing skills.

- [Jeff D’Andria](mailto:jeff@makeschool.com), Masters of Science, Syracuse University, 2012;
  Bachelor of Arts, University of California at Davis, 2008; Associate of Arts, Skyline College,
  2006

### Alumni Relations

As a student of Make School, you will also be part of our stellar alumni community. Our alumni are
awesome resources; not only can they share their experiences as a student at Make School, but they
can also take on the role of Industry Contacts (or Mentors) as you progress in your career. You are
encouraged to join the Alumni Slack channel and reach out to alumni for support, advice, and
networking opportunities. Once you graduate from Make School, remember that your engagement
continues within the alumni community. You’ll have the opportunity to attend alumni community
events, work with alumni in the industry, and also to mentor current students. Moreover, as a Make
School Student, you will be provided continuous coaching and job support as an alumnus, courtesy of
our Student Outcomes Team!

### Campus Recreation

Make School’s campus includes a variety of recreational activities for students, faculty, and staff.
Some regular on-campus recreational activities include:

- A **Ping Pong Table** is available for student use. If you’re especially competitive, you can even
  partake in the student-run Ping Pong Tournaments!

- The **Manzanita Macaroon Maker Space**, located off of the Great Hall, is a room with Virtual
  Reality gaming access and contains equipment for our craftier students interested in modifying
  hardware.

- **Lightning Talks** is an opportunity for students to hone their public speaking skills! Hosted in
  the Great Hall, Lightning Talks, which are 3-5 minute student presentations that instruct or
  inform the audience on a particular topic.

- A **Weekly Game Night** is hosted every Friday in conjunction with our Unconference programming.
  Students are welcome to join in playing board games, tabletop role-playing games, and video games
  on campus!

- **Wellness Wednesday** offers students the opportunity to practice self-care through mindfulness,
  reflection, and physical activity.

Moreover, San Francisco is an extension of your campus! San Francisco is filled with different
neighborhoods, food, sightseeing, architecture, street fairs, concerts, and free activities! Here’s
a list of
[Fun in San Francisco](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q3j9ChRX7JUbRMXkycC-rhboHs1rEdvowSGu4CR3on4/preview)!

Make School also provides a number of events and activities for remote students including virtual
hangouts, club meetings, and yoga classes, coffee breaks, and game nights!

### Emergency Procedures & Preparedness

#### Safety & Security on Campus

Security and safety on campus must be a top priority for all of us. While the Make School is
committed to making our campus a safe environment, it would be impossible to prevent all criminal
activity. To make the campus as secure as possible, the following information is provided so that
you are familiar with procedures Make School has set in place to foster a safe campus environment:

- **Campus Access:** Make School campus is open Monday through Friday from 9:00am to 6:00pm, and
  access to our facilities is monitored and controlled by Make School ID badges.

- **Campus Security:** After Hours Security for Make School and Hotel Zeppelin can be reached by
  phone at (415) 563-0303.

- **Formal Complaints:** A victim of a crime wishing to file a formal complaint against a
  perpetrator who is a member of the campus community should refer to Make School’s
  [Formal Resolution](../conduct-policies/disciplinary-action-academic-conduct) Policy. For
  information about harassment or sexual violence, please refer to the
  [Title IX Policy.](../conduct-policies/title-ix-understanding-harassment-sexual-misconduct)

- **Media Inquiries:** Any inquiries from the news media regarding the occurrence of criminal
  incidents on campus should be directed to [the Dean](mailto:dean@makeschool.com).

- **Missing Persons Reporting:** In compliance with the Higher Education Act, Make School gives all
  students the option to provide confidential contact information for a person to be notified in the
  event a student is officially reported as missing. Should you have concerns about an individual
  who may be missing, please speak to the
  [Director of Student and Academic Affairs](mailto:michelle.blackburn@makeschool.com).

- **Notification of Current Campus Crime:** Title II of Federal Public Law 101-542, The Jeanne Clery
  Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, requires colleges to collect
  and report statistics concerning the occurrence on campus of certain criminal offenses which must
  be reported to campus security authorities or local police agencies. Those criminal offenses
  include murder, rape, sex offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, and motor vehicle
  theft. In addition, the Violence Against Women Re-authorization Act (VAWRA) requires colleges to
  report incidents of dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking in addition to crimes related
  to sexual misconduct and sexual assault. At Make School, the Office of Compliance collects data
  about these crimes, which are published each year. Information is also collected about arrests for
  liquor law violations, for drug abuse violations, and for weapon possession.

- **Reporting Crimes & Emergencies:** In the event of a violent crime, a crime in progress, or an
  incident involving personal injury or requiring medical attention, immediately contact the San
  Francisco Police Department or San Francisco Fire Department by dialing 911.

- **Reporting Non-Emergency Criminal Acts:** Non-emergency criminal acts (e.g., vandalism, burglary,
  etc.) should immediately be reported to:

[Michelle Lessly Blackburn](mailto:michelle.blackburn@makeschool.com)

Director of Student Academic Affairs and Clery Officer

#### Emergency Notification System

All students are enrolled into Make School’s emergency alert notification system. In the event of an
emergency situation on campus, the system sends text and voice messages to the campus community with
important information and instructions. It is imperative that students follow the directions and
instructions provided by the system. Make School staff or local civil agencies will initiate
procedures to inform students of the nature of the situation and steps to follow.

#### Procedures & Preparedness

Please follow the protocols listed below for each emergency situation.

##### Earthquake

**When indoors:** drop to the floor and take cover. Be prepared to move with it until the shaking
stops. If not near a desk or table, huddle against the interior wall of the room and protect your
head and neck with your arms. Avoid exterior walls, windows, hanging objects, mirrors, tall
furniture, large appliances, and cabinets with heavy objects or glass. Do not go outside until you
know that there is safe passage, and no falling debris outside of the building.

**If you are in bed**, hold on and stay there. Protect your head with a pillow. You are less likely
to be injured staying where you are.

**When outdoors:** move to a clear area, if you can safely do so. Avoid power lines, trees, signs,
buildings, vehicles, and other hazards.

**If you are driving**, pull over to the side of the road, stop, and set the parking brake. Avoid
overpasses, bridges, power lines, signs, and other hazards. Stay inside the vehicle until the
shaking is over. If a power line falls on the car, stay inside until a trained person removes the
wire.

It is recommended that everyone in the Bay Area have an earthquake kit ready in case of emergency.
Many options are available for purchase through Amazon.

##### Fire

Leave the building via the nearest stairway or exit, as safely and quickly as possible if:

- The fire alarm sounds.

- You smell gas.

- You smell or see smoke.

- You are instructed to evacuate.

Some important DOs and DON’Ts to remember, in case of fire:

- DO assist those with disabilities, or those in need, to exit the building.

- DO gather at the evacuation assembly area.

- DO NOT use any elevators to exit the building.

- DO NOT return to the building until instructed that it is safe to do so.

### Job Placement Services

Make School employs an Outcomes Lead who assists graduates in developing job search skills such as
resume and cover letter development, interviewing skills, and appropriate interview follow-up
activities. Make School organizes career-preparation events including talks, dinners, career fairs,
and demo days with industry members to broaden students’ professional networks and increase their
access to potential employers. During their time at Make School, students have the ability to
participate in on-site visits to local potential employers, and build an online portfolio to be
showcased during recruitment opportunities. Make School also makes personal introductions to
recruiters and companies for well-qualified students seeking internships and full-time employment.

At no time does Make School guarantee employment or salary, or advertise job availability, degree of
skill, or length of time needed to learn a trade or skill in a misleading fashion.

### Housing and Residence Life

Make School highly recommends, but does not require, all students live housing made available for
Make School. Recognized student housing is located at 851 California Street (seniors and super
seniors), and Bartlett and Herbert Halls (juniors).

Make School does not bear responsibility for assisting students in finding housing. However, we
recognize a number of circumstances may prevent students from being able to live in housing for Make
School students. Students who are seeking off-campus housing may contact
[ResLife@makeschool.com](mailto:ResLife@makeschool.com) for further resources that may aid in
locating housing in the Bay Area.

- **851 California Street**, located in Nob Hill, is approximately a 10 minute walk from Make
  School’s main campus, but can also be accessed via public transportation. Students who live in 851
  California are responsible for upholding the policies and procedures included in the
  [Residence Life ](make.sc/res-life-handbook)[and Housing Handbook.](make.sc/res-life-handbook)
  Housing rates are charged per student (bed) on monthly, and students hold a month-to-month lease.
  For the 2020-2021 academic year, 851 housing rates are as follows:

  | Single Occupancy Room | $1450/month |
  | --------------------- | ----------- |
  | Double Occupancy Room | $1150/month |

- **Bartlett and Herbert** Halls are located in Union Square, approximately a 5 minute walk from
  Make School’s main campus, but can also be accessed via public transportation. Students who live
  in Bartlett and Herbert Halls are responsible for upholding the policies and procedures included
  in their leasing agreement with Paramount Student Housing.Housing rates are charged per student
  (bed) on monthly, and students hold a month-to-month lease. For the 2020-2021 academic year,
  Bartlett and Herebert housing rates are as follows:

  | Single Occupancy Room | $1000/month |
  | --------------------- | ----------- |
  | Double Occupancy Room | $800/month  |

### Lost & Found

If you lost something at Make School, it is best to check the Lost and Found bin located in the
Student Resource Room. If you cannot locate your item(s), or if you want to report adding an item to
the Lost and Found bin, you can message the #lost-and-found Slack channel. The Lost and Found bin
will be cleared annually.

### Parking & Transportation

Make School is located in the heart of San Francisco, so parking is limited to city parking lots and
metered street parking. Students and visitors are encouraged to take public transport to campus.

Public transit is, by far, the easiest way of navigating the bay area. The basic forms of
transportation are, as follows:

- **AC Transit:** This is an Oakland-based public transit agency serving the western portions of
  Alameda and Contra Costa counties in the East Bay of the San Francisco Bay Area. AC Transit also
  operates "Transbay" routes across San Francisco Bay to San Francisco and selected areas in San
  Mateo and Santa Clara counties. **Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART):** This is a rapid transit public
  transportation system serving the San Francisco Bay Area in California. The heavy rail elevated
  and subway system connects San Francisco and Oakland with urban and suburban areas in Alameda,
  Contra Costa, and San Mateo counties.

- **CalTrain:** This is a California commuter rail line on the San Francisco Peninsula and in the
  Santa Clara Valley. The northern terminus of the line is in San Francisco at 4th and King streets;
  its southern terminus is in Gilroy.

- **The San Francisco Municipal Railway (MUNI):** This is the public transit system for the city and
  county of San Francisco, California. This includes the cable car system, the internal ‘subway’
  system that navigates San Francisco, and buses.

#### Clipper Card

We recommend that you invest in a [Clipper Card](https://www.clippercard.com/), which simplifies
paying for public transit by allowing you to reload funds automatically and online. It can also save
you money! For example, if you opt to automatically reload a High Value Discount ticket for Bay Area
Rapid Transit (BART), you receive a 6.25% discount per ride. There are also monthly Muni passes for
San Francisco fares, and the option of adding general cash value to your Clipper Card. Please note
that loading BART funds onto your account will not allow you to use other forms of public
transportation; you will have to load additional funds onto your Clipper Card to access additional
modes of travel.

### Student Groups

We empower and encourage students to initiate leadership and ownership over clubs. Since each cohort
is unique, we let student voices be heard and support their goals rather than determining standard
clubs. In this way, clubs are inspired and self-formed by the community and its members. Previous
cohorts have organized a Drone Club, Hackathon Club, and Women in Tech Club. Make School staff
members with expertise and/or interest in an area can serve as guides and resources to support
student clubs.

#### Student Council

Student Council is a Make School-sponsored group that consists of student advocates, nominated and
elected by their peers, who act as the voice of the student body. The council has weekly meetings
with the Student Experience team to ensure students are happy, heard, and aware of the efforts
employed to support their life here at Make School. The members of the Student Council have the role
of listening to student concerns, and communicating these concerns to Make School staff. Student
Council is granted a budget and can plan student events in collaboration with the Student Experience
team.

#### Student Event Coordinators

We encourage students to help organize school-related gatherings! Students who express an interest
in this role volunteer to meet bi-weekly with the Student Experience Team to plan and organize
monthly events for the student body and staff. Events include holiday celebrations, multicultural
day meals, talent shows, spring flings, and other school-sponsored functions.

#### Diversity and Inclusion Committee

Students are welcome to participate in developing initiatives to support a diverse student
population. The student-led D & I committee works with the Student Experience team to host
educational programs, trainings, and events to help foster a welcoming and inclusive environment for
all community members.

## Additional Support Resources

### Additional Support Resources Overview

The section of the Catalog gives helpful information for how to navigate challenges off-campus.

### Health Insurance

Make School does not provide health insurance but all students are expected to have health
insurance. Students can apply for free healthcare via Covered California. Learn more here:
[Medi-Cal](https://www.coveredca.com/medi-cal/)*. *You can also find and enroll in other health
insurance options supported by [Covered California](https://www.coveredca.com/).

Students without health insurance may incur fees with the IRS for lack of coverage.

### Hospitals & Clinics

Below are a few local hospitals and clinics, should students ever need immediate care:

| [Kaiser Permanente Hospital](https://thrive.kaiserpermanente.org/care-near-you/northern-california/sanfrancisco/locations/1635-divisadero-2/)<br />1632 Divisadero Street<br />San Francisco<br />(415) 833-2000          | [San Francisco Free Clinic](https://sffc.org/)<br />4900 California Street<br />San Francisco, CA<br />(415) 750-9894 | [UCSF Hospital](https://www.ucsfhealth.org/)<br />505 Parnassus Avenue<br />San Francisco<br />(415) 476-1000 |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Planned Parenthood SF](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/health-center/california/san-francisco/94110/san-francisco-health-center-3997-90200)<br />1650 Valencia Street<br />San Francisco, CA 94110<br />(415) 821-1282 | [SF Sex Information](http://sfsi.org/)<br />(415) 989-7374<br />ask-us@sfsi.org                                       | SF General Hospital<br />1001 Potrero Ave, San Francisco, CA 94110<br />(628) 206-8000                        |

### Mental Health & Emotional Support

Make School partners with [Better Help](betterhelp.com), an online, on-demand licensed mental health
counseling service. Students will receive unique log-in credentials upon enrollment of their first
term at Make School and are able to use these services at no cost.

Students can also review a comprehensive list of mental health resources at
[make.sc/mental-health-resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ONyKidX-a9HCrGVqA0c7JHMSWb85gUjFJlRx5sb9GFE/edit).

#### Other Recommended Free or Sliding Scale Counseling Services

Do you want to see a mental health practitioner outside of the on-site service we provide? Below are
some free or sliding-scale counseling service providers we recommend. Please note that these
organizations are in no way affiliated with Make School.

| [Integral Counseling](http://www.integralcounseling.org)<br />2140 Pierce Street<br />San Francisco, CA 94115(415) 776-3109 <br /><br />Sliding Scale (Starts at $20) | [Lyon Martin Clinic](http://www.lyon-martin.org)<br />1735 Mission Street<br />San Francisco, CA 94103<br />(415) 565-7667 <br />For Women & Trans Patients | [San Francisco City Impact](https://wellness.sfcityimpact.com/home/)<br />140 Turk Street<br />San Francisco, CA 94102<br />(415) 738-6878<br />Mon. - Fri., 10am - 4pm |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

#### Mental Health "Warm" Lines

If you need to speak with someone, but you’re not in crisis, a "warm" line may be a useful option
for you. These are services you can call to talk through stressful times without going into an
office to see a therapist.

| [Mental Health Assoc. of SF Peer-Run Warm Line](http://www.mentalhealthsf.org/peer-run-warmline/)<br />(855) 845-7415<br />Mon. - Thurs., 7am - 11pm<br />Fri - Sun., 11am - 7pm | [NAMI](https://www.nami.org/)<br />Nat’l Alliance on Mental Illness<br />National HelpLine <br />(800) 950-6264 | Office of Self-Help <br />Emotional Support Warm Line<br />(415) 575-1400<br />Mon. - Tues., 9am - 5pm<br />Wed. - Sun., 9am - 8:30pm |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

#### Mental Health Crisis Hotlines

The below resources are hotlines that help you when you’re in a mental health crisis, and are
possibly at risk of hurting yourself or others.

| [SF Suicide Prevention 24-Hour Crisis Line](http://www.sfsuicide.org/our-programs/24-hour-crisis-line/) <br />(415) 781-0500 -or- (800) 273-8255 | [National Suicide Prevention Lifeline](https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/)<br />(800) 273-8255                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [The Trevor Project (LGBT Suicide Prevention)](https://www.thetrevorproject.org/)<br />(866) 488-7386                                            | [Trauma Recovery/Rape Treatment Center](http://traumarecoverycenter.org/services/rape-treatment-center/)<br />(415) 437-3000 |

### Childcare

Make School does not provide childcare, but the
[Children’s Council](http://www.childrenscouncil.org/) can help. Please visit their website to see
the childcare services they offer.

## Helpful Links

### Academic Services and Information

[Academic Calendar](make.sc/academic-calendar)

[Academic Misconduct Report](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeUBN68KkiOyXoynNwBrc89zb5Tr-Z0g0aCpNqbgNzCBm1uGQ/viewform?usp=sf_link)

[Add-Drop form](http://make.sc/course-add-drop-form)

[Authorization to Take Course(s) Off-Campus Form](https://live-dominican.pantheonsite.io/sites/default/files/2020-01/registrar-authorization-to-take-courses-off-campus.pdf)

[Course Offerings](make.sc/course-offerings)

[Course Registration](make.sc/course-registrations)

[Course Schedule](make.sc/course-schedule)

[Disability Services Intake Form](http://make.sc/ada-intake-form)

[Dominican University Self-Service](make.sc/du-self-service)

[FERPA Notice & Release Form](http://make.sc/ferpa-release)

[Grade Change Petition](http://make.sc/grade-change-form)

[Incomplete Grade Request Form](http://make.sc/incomplete-grade-request-form)

[Library Services and Information](make.sc/library)

[Leave of Absence Request](http://make.sc/leave-of-absence)

[National Student Clearinghouse](http://www.studentclearinghouse.org/) (Transcript Requests)

[Non-Standard Academic Course Load Form](http://make.sc/non-standard-course-load)

[Off-Campus Registration Reimbursement Form](http://make.sc/off-campus-course-reimbursement)

[SUP Contract Template](http://make.sc/SUP-contract)

[Technical Seminar Registration Request Form](http://make.sc/technical-seminar-request)

[Withdrawal from Make School Form](http://make.sc/program_withdrawal)

### Financial Aid

[Dominican Satisfactory Academic Progress](https://www.dominican.edu/admissions/tuition-and-financial-aid/financial-aid-policies/satisfactory-academic-progress)

[Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)](https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa)

[Student Financial Aid Information](https://www.makeschool.com/computer-science-degree/tuition-and-aid)

### Student Services

[BetterHelp](betterhelp.com) (online counseling services)

[Emotional Support Animal Agreement](http://make.sc/esa-agreement)[ ](http://make.sc/esa-agreement)

[Immunization & TB Screening Form](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mgxXLFwkNxcq-Is8crbZMUMvc5oEmT6N/view)

[Health Requirements Checklist](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IiTDCfFZqoPXSdgUOKJUaBjrTPO2yWKJ/view?usp=sharing)

[Medical History Form](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jJQYXOpTKPnirWlC0aCzfwMmWbmC3C7a/view)

[Mental Health Resources](make.sc/mental-health-resources)

[Residence Life ](http://make.sc/res-life-handbook)[and Housing Handbook](http://make.sc/res-life-handbook)

[Student Reporting Form](http://make.sc/student-reporting-form)

[Service Animal Agreement](http://make.sc/service-animal-agreement)

[Title IX Policy](https://www.dominican.edu/sites/default/files/2020-11/title_ix_policy_dhr_policy_for_employees-after-aug14.pdf)

### General information

[Bureau of Private Postsecondary Education](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/)

[Care.com](care.com) (National network of childcare providers)

[Children’s Council](http://www.childrenscouncil.org/) (childcare in the Bay Area)

[Clipper Card](https://www.clippercard.com/) (Public Transportation in the Bay Area)

[Covered California](https://www.coveredca.com/) (California’s Health Insurance Exchange)

[Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html)

[GitHub](https://github.com/Product-College-Courses/)

[Healthcare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/) (National Healthcare exchange)

[Make School](makeschool.com)

[Make School’s Incubation Policy](https://www.wscuc.org/content/incubation-policy) (WSCUC
Accreditation Information)

[Slack](http://slack.com)
