---
title: FEW  Frontend Web Development
slug: 'few-frontend-web-development'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

## FEW: Frontend Web Development

Students pursuing the _Front End Web Concentration_ learn the theory and application of the full
product development process for interactive web applications. Beginning with full-stack Javascript
and its core functional programming principles, students will then examine more thoroughly front-end
and back-end engineering courses. In upper division courses, students will learn to secure, deploy,
and scale their applications using the same production-grade tools used in industry. Throughout,
students will put their learned skills and knowledge into practice by designing, coding, and
launching products that solve commercial or societal problems.

**FEW 1.2: JavaScript Foundations (ACS 1320)**

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course covers foundational JavaScript, debugging JavaScript and working with various JavaScript
libraries to build applications and games. Classes and Object Oriented Programming (OOP) are
introduced with a closer look at how OOP is uniquely implemented in JavaScript. Students gain a
strong understanding of JavaScript syntax and features.

**FEW 1.3: Responsive Web Design (ACS 2330)**

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course covers the technologies needed to build responsive websites. Students will build
projects that consume outside APIs and display JSON data using AJAX, Fetch, Promise, and Async/Await
and CORS. Students will use CSS media queries and responsive CSS techniques to create projects that
display well on both desktop and mobile.

**FEW 2.1: Writing JavaScript Libraries (ACS 3310)**

_Prerequisites: FEW 1.2_

This course focuses on creating and publishing front end libraries in JavaScript. Students will
learn JavaScript testing, functional programming, module patterns, and basic build systems through
creating and publishing NPM libraries. Unit testing is introduced and applied. The course emphasizes
problem abstraction and writing code that solves general problems.

**FEW 2.2: Web Design & Advanced CSS (ACS 3320)**

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0 or FEW 1.1_

This course is a deep exploration of CSS. Students take a close look at rendering web pages with
CSS, using CSS for motion and interaction, optimizing CSS for use with CSS variables and working
with modern CSS frameworks.

**FEW 2.3: Single Page Web Applications (ACS 3330)**

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1, FEW 1.2_

This course covers the process and tools used to build single page applications (SPA) using the most
up-to-date tools and techniques. Students will learn to manage state and render on state changes
using reactive programming techniques. Modern JavaScript libraries including React and Redux will be
used.

**FEW 2.4: Native Development with JavaScript (ACS 3340)**

_Prerequisites: FEW 2.3_

This course covers how JavaScript can be used to create native desktop and mobile applications for
both Android and iOS. JavaScript provides a path to applications that have the ease of being cross
platform and written in JavaScript while still benefiting most of the features of writing in the
native language. Students will deepen their JavaScript knowledge and gain understanding where these
JavaScript frameworks can and can not effectively replace native programming.

**FEW 2.5: Data Visualization and Web Graphics (ACS 4310)**

_Prerequisites: FEW 1.2_

This course covers programming in JavaScript D3 to display and visualize data as well as how to
manage, transform, and normalize data for display on the screen. Students will learn how to create
effective visualizations, complex drawings and animations on the web using SVG for vector graphics
and Canvas for pixel based graphics.

**FEW 2.9: Front End Web Technical Seminar (ACS 4390)**

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in FEW Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. Instructors will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.
