---
title: Science   Letters  CORE
slug: 'science-letters-core'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

## Science & Letters (CORE)

The Science & Letters (CORE) curriculum is comprised of nine categories: Effective Communication 1,
Effective Communication 2, Quantitative Literacy & Social Issues, Civic Knowledge and Engagement,
Artistic and Creative Expression, Science for Global Citizens, An Examined Life, Social Sciences:
Understanding Human Behavior, and Purpose and Meaning.

Make School embraces diversity and encourages students to bring their informed perspectives to the
learning environment. As such, Make School’s S&L curriculum allows for various worldviews to be
present in the classroom and extends the ability for students to engage in the free expression of
ideas in their search for truth. Therefore, faculty and students are protected by
[Academic Freedom](#heading=h.4nb9fgeoaaoy) in all Science and Letters courses.

Science and Letters classes available for registration vary by term. The course descriptions
included are courses that have been previously been offered and may be offered during the 2020-2021
school year.

1. Effective Communication 1

**EC 1000: Effective Communication 1: Verbal and Visual Literacies**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course provides essential training in analyzing and creating poly-modal forms of written, oral,
digital, and visual communication. Students learn to effectively critique communicative works and to
engage the process of drafting, feedback, and revision in order to produce their own well-designed,
carefully researched written texts, oral presentations, and visual communications (including the
digital portfolio and an academic essay) for different potential audiences. Emphasizing the
conventions of reflective and critical modes of writing and speaking, this course prepares students
for communicative success in their college careers and beyond. The course may be offered as Writing
Intensive or Service-Learning.

**ENGL 1004: Expository Writing**

_Prerequisites: None_

Students will engage in writing of university-level expository essays across rhetorical modes.
Emphasis on critical reading, and thinking, summary, analysis, synthesis, and research. Can be
substituted for EC 1000.

2. Effective Communication 2

**EC 2000: Effective Communication 2: Rhetoric and Research**

_Prerequisites: EC 1000 or HONO 1100_

This course places an emphasis on critical thinking through research, evaluating source material,
and synthesizing concepts for advanced argumentative rhetoric. Through engagement with scholarly
texts and revision of their own work, students create persuasive rhetorics (oral, visual, and
written) crafted from logic, evidence, study, and synthesis - applying appropriate citation,
documentation, form, and medium.

3. Quantitative Literacy & Social Issues

**MATH 1450: Mathematical Thinking and Quantitative Reasoning**

_Prerequisites: Score of 30 or higher on ALEKS exam or transfer credit for MATH 1210 (but put in
course title) or higher._

An introductory university mathematics course designed to enable students to see mathematics as an
enriching and empowering discipline. Topics covered include principles of reasoning, problem solving
tools, fundamentals of statistics, modeling our world, exponential growth and decay, fundamentals of
probability, putting statistics to work, real-world mathematical applications. Purchase of a
specific brand and model of a graphing calculator may be required.

4. Civic Knowledge and Engagement

**ENGL 3051: Latin American Literature**

_Prerequisites: None_

Study of major works and movements of Latin arts. The materials for this course are drawn from
across or within major geographical regions of Latin America and are focused on specific literary
periods varying from pre-contact indigenous works to 21st century postmodernism; they cover a wide
spectrum of prose, poetry, and, at times, narrative film that exemplifies national and regional
differences. Works and writers may include "Popol Vuh," "Quetzalcoatl," Garcia Marquez, Allende,
Borges, Neruda, and Paz.

**HIST 1207: Special Topics in Women’s History**

_Prerequisites: None_

This course provides an overview of women’s experiences in different historical periods and in
various geographical locations. Examines the roles assigned to women and at the selected experiences
of women. It studies the writings about and by women. Considers the lives of various historical
women who contributed to the disciplines of art, literature, philosophy, politics, and society.
Focus of the geographical area will vary.

5. Artistic and Creative Expression

**ENGL 2305: Introduction to Creative Writing**

_Prerequisites: None_

Introduction to many forms of creative writing, including poetry, fiction, and drama writing. Study
of key terms and concepts in the writing process and practice in peer workshops.

6. Science for Global Citizens

**PHSC 3210: Bay Area Rocks: Geology of Northern California**

_Corequisites: PHSC 3215 (Lab)_

This lecture class investigates the unique ecosystems of the Bay Area and Northern California. It
explores how the geology and physical environment of California have and continue to shape the way
people live here. Topics include natural disasters, resource use and allocation, water rights,
development limitations and energy generation.

**PHSC 3215: Bay Area Rocks: Geology of Northern California Lab**

_Corequisites: PHSC 3210 (Lecture)_

This is the lab component of PHSC 3215 (see course description above).

**PHYS 1000: Conceptual Physics**

_Corequisites: PHYS 1005 (Lab)_

An introductory physics class. Topics will include classical mechanics (motion), conservation of
energy, thermodynamics, electricity and magnetism, light, sound and wave properties

**PHYS 1000: Conceptual Physics Lab**

_Corequisites: PHYS 1000 (Lecture)_

This is the lab component of PHYS 1000 (see course description above).

7. An Examined Life

**PHIL 2110: Environmental Ethics**

_Prerequisites: None_

An investigation of philosophical perspectives on humanity’s relation to nature, combined with an
exploration of contemporary environmental issues and related political decision making.

**PHIL 3123: Ethical Being, Being Ethical**

_Prerequisites: None_

An introduction to ethical theory in Western philosophy followed by an investigation of a range of
contemporary ethical problems drawn from private life, public policy, law, medicine, and business.

**PHIL 3102: Global Business Ethics and Law**

_Prerequisites: None_

The course examines the field of philosophical ethics and laws and facilitates students’ disciplined
reflections on ethical issues related to domestic and international business. The course covers
ethical methods as applied to business and the legal environment affecting business. Contemporary
ethical issues in business will be examined through case studies.

8. Social Sciences: Understanding Human Behavior

**PSY 1100: Introduction to Psychology**

_Prerequisites: None_

Basic methods and concepts of psychology, focusing on research findings and theoretical viewpoints.
Topics include theories of personality, psychological development, personality disorders, social
psychology, cognition, motivation and emotion, perception and learning, biological and
socio-cultural bases of behavior.

9. Purpose and Meaning

**PHIL 3125: Human Being, Being Human**

_Prerequisites: None_

Inquiry into the enduring questions of human nature including the meaning and purpose of human life,
the questions of its spiritual origin and destiny, its capacities for good and evil, the scope and
limits of its freedom, the nature of knowing, and the question of immortality, drawing upon a range
of Western thought. Particular attention is given to the tension between classical religious and
philosophical views and those stemming from modern human sciences such as psychology, sociology, and
sociobiology.

**RLGN 3003: Art and the Sacred**

_Prerequisites: None_

Analyzes ways that religions and the arts illuminate each other while providing insight into human
experiences, including alienation and injustice. May include community engagement.

**RLGN 3178: The World’s Religions**

_Prerequisites: None_

A study of humankind's ultimate and enduring questions­ the nature of reality and the meaning and
end of human life­ against the background of its multiform spiritual heritage. The course will
survey the world's religious traditions (Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism,
Confucianism, and Taoism), accenting both their commonalities and their distinctiveness.

**RLGN 3179: Myth, Symbol and Ritual**

_Prerequisites: None_

Using an interdisciplinary framework this course stresses that myth, symbol and ritual are of
crucial significance to all human societies, are intricately interdependent as phrenoma of religious
expression, and are vital to the study and to the understanding of religion and humankind. In this
course, we will engage in a cross-cultural examination of how diverse peoples establish their
religious worlds by narrating stories and symbolically acting out their deepest aspirations and
beliefs.

.