---
title: Disclosures Related to Federal Student Aid
slug: 'disclosures-related-to-federal-student-aid'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

## Disclosures Related to Federal Student Aid

The Applied Computer Science Program at Make School is awaiting final approval from the Department
of Education to process Title IV Federal Financial Aid. If you have any questions, please contact
[financial.aid@makeschool.com](mailto:financial.aid@makeschool.com).

We strongly encourage all students to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
prior to borrowing private loans to determine eligibility for Federal, State, and Institutional aid
for the amount for which they may be eligible to receive. By completing the FAFSA, a student may be
able to receive Federal, State, or Institutional Grants, Federal Work-Study, or Federal Loans.

In addition, we strongly encourage students and parents to consider borrowing federal loans prior to
borrowing private loans. The terms and conditions of federal loans (Direct Subsidized Loan, Direct
Unsubsidized Loan, and Direct PLUS Loan) may be more favorable than the terms and conditions of
private loans.

### Before Applying for a Private Loan (SB 1289 Disclosure Statement)

Students and families considering loans to assist with funding educational expenses need to be aware
of the difference between federal loans and private loans:

- Federal loans are required by law to provide a range of flexible repayment options including, but
  not limited to, income-based and income-contingent repayment plans, as well as loan forgiveness
  benefits that private lenders are not required to provide.

- Federal loans are provided to most students, regardless of income. Other qualification criteria do
  apply.

- Private lenders can offer variable interest rates that can increase or decrease over time,
  depending on market conditions.

- The interest rate on a private loan may depend on the borrower’s and/or cosigner’s credit rating.

- Private loans have a range of interest rates and fees and the borrower should determine the
  interest rate of, and any fees associated with, the private loan included in their financial aid
  award before accepting the loan. Students should contact the lender of the private loan or the
  Office of Financial Aid if there are any questions about a private loan.

Before applying for a private loan, we encourage students and families to research all options and
make sure you understand the interest rate, fees, terms, and conditions of any loan before applying.

**There is a range of interest rates and fees available and we strongly recommend students to apply
with a creditworthy cosigner to potentially obtain a better interest rate and increase the chance of
being approved.**

In addition, you may apply with multiple lenders to find the best loan for you. Student loans are
provided special protections under credit reporting rules (similar to mortgages)--as long as you
conduct your "shopping" within a 30-day period, there should be no impact on your FICO score or loan
terms (Make School does not guarantee this, but that is our understanding).

### Endorsement Disclaimer

Make School does not endorse any specific lender or any specific product. The lenders and products
[listed](make.sc/preferred-lenders) are not ranked and these lists are meant to serve only as a
guide for students and families looking for additional options to assist with educational expenses.
Make School does not receive any benefits in exchange for placing a lender on the preferred private
loan list.

Make School is always evaluating the lenders, products, and websites it uses to assist students and
families with the private loan search process. A lender will remain on the lender list unless Make
School has a reason to remove it (such as but not limited to, poor customer service, change in
borrower benefits or rates, etc.).

Make School requests updated information from the lenders on the preferred lender list periodically.
The evaluation process for a lender to be added to and remain on the list includes, but is not
limited to a review of the fees associated with the loan, the competitiveness of interest rates, the
customer service provided, the electronic application and processing capabilities, the borrower
benefits that differentiate the loan product from others, historical use by Make School students,
lender reputation, and/or any unique factors that separate the loan product and/or lender from
others.
