---
title: Cancellation and Withdrawal Refund Policies
slug: 'cancellation-and-withdrawal-refund-policies'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

# Cancellation and Withdrawal Refund Policies

## Student’s Right to Cancel

Students have the right to cancel their agreement for a program of instruction, without any penalty
or obligations, through attendance at the first class session or the seventh calendar day after
enrollment, whichever is later. Cancellation of their agreement can occur through the date denoted
on their enrollment agreement form.

Cancellation may occur when the student provides a written notice of cancellation at the following
address: 555 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94102. This can be done by mail or by hand delivery. The
written notice of cancellation, if sent by mail, is effective when deposited in the mail properly
addressed with proper postage.

The written notice of cancellation need not take any particular form and, however expressed, it is
effective if it shows that the student no longer wishes to be bound by the Enrollment Agreement.

If the Enrollment Agreement is cancelled, the school will refund the student any money he/she paid
within 45 days after the notice of cancellation is received.

If the student obtains a loan to pay for this educational program, the students will be responsible
to repay the full amount of the loan plus interest, less the amount of any refund.

If the student is eligible for a loan guarantee by the federal or state government and the student
defaults on the loan, both of the following may occur: 1) The federal or state government or loan
guarantee agency may take action against the student, including applying any income tax refund to
which the person is entitled to reduce the balance owed on the loan. 2) The student may not be
eligible for any other federal student financial aid at another institution or other government
assistance until the loan is repaid. If the student has received federal student financial aid
funds, the student is entitled to a refund of monies not paid from federal student financial aid
program funds.

## Withdrawal from Make School and Refund Policy

Students may withdraw from the school at any time after the cancellation period (described above)
and receive a pro rata refund if they have completed 80% or less of the scheduled days in the
current payment period in their program through the last day of attendance. If the student has
completed more than 80% of the period of attendance for which the student was charged, the tuition
is considered earned and the student will receive no refund.

For the purpose of determining a refund under this section, a student may be deemed to have
withdrawn from a program of instruction when any of the following occurs:

- The Dean of Make School, as well as the Office of the Registrar, receive notice from the student,
  indicating a desire to withdraw from the program of instruction. The notice must include the
  expected last date of attendance.

- The institution terminates the student’s enrollment for failure to maintain satisfactory progress;
  failure to abide by the rules and regulations of the institution; absences in excess of maximum
  set forth by the institution; and/or failure to meet financial obligations to the School.

For the purpose of determining the amount of the refund, the date of the student’s withdrawal shall
be deemed the last date of recorded attendance. The amount owed equals the daily charge for the
program (total institutional charge, minus non-refundable fees, divided by the number of days in the
period of attendance, multiplied by the number of days scheduled to attend prior to withdrawal). No
refund will be issued to a student who has attended more than 80% of the days in the period of
attendance.

If any portion of the tuition was paid from the proceeds of a loan or third party, the refund shall
be sent to the lender, third party or, if appropriate, to the state or federal agency that
guaranteed or reinsured the loan. Any amount of the refund in excess of the unpaid balance of the
loan shall be first used to repay any student financial aid programs from which the student received
benefits, in proportion to the amount of the benefits received, and any remaining amount shall be
paid to the student. If the student has received federal student financial aid funds, the student is
entitled to a refund of monies not paid from federal student financial aid program funds.
