---
title: Foundation
slug: 'foundation'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

### Foundation

Students in the five foundation courses will master the basics of computer science and full stack
web development. Students will also learn the basic skills and tools of the software development
process. These courses are taken in a studentâ€™s first terms at Make School and are the foundation of
all the technical courses.

#### CS 1.0: Introduction to Programming (ACS 1100)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the fundamentals of programming including variables, data types, conditionals,
control flow, loops, lists, file input and output, and functions. Students will learn software
development skills including writing pseudocode, drawing flowchart diagrams, problem solving, and
debugging.

#### CS 1.1: Object Oriented Programming (ACS 1110)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.0_

This course covers the fundamentals of programming including variables, data types, control flow,
conditionals, loops, lists, dictionaries, functions, and object-oriented programming. Students will
master top-level concepts in software development including writing pseudocode, using functions to
process input into output, technical project planning, and diagramming. The course will also cover
how computers work, from components and layout to memory and machine code instructions.

#### CS 1.2: Introduction to Data Structures (ACS 1120)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.1_

This course looks under the hood at data structures and algorithms to see how arrays, linked lists
and hash tables work. Students will build these structures from scratch, analyze complexity, and
benchmark performance in an application to gain an understanding of real-world tradeoffs. Students
will write scripts, functions, and library modules to use text processing tools like regular
expressions, construct and sample probability distributions to create a Markov language model and
gain insight into how grammar works and introductory natural language processing techniques.

#### WEB 1.0: Web Foundations (ACS 1700)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the foundations of HTML, CSS and JavaScript which are the building blocks of any
web application. Students will master HTML and intermediate CSS allowing them to create a compelling
website from scratch. JavaScript will be introduced and students will learn basic concepts and
syntax needed to create interactive frontend applications. The course will also cover the
architecture of frontend applications, the role of each technology in creating modular applications,
and professional best practices in frontend development.

#### WEB 1.1: Web Architecture (ACS 1710)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.0_

This course covers language-independent web server frameworks and patterns in full-stack web design.
Students will use their prior knowledge in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build the front-end of a
simple web application, and then will learn new concepts to write a supporting back-end. This course
covers the request-response cycle, server-side templating, parsing data from an HTML form, HTTP
methods, and using APIs. More advanced concepts include document-based databases and controller
testing
