---
title: BEW  Backend Web Development
slug: 'bew-backend-web-development'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

# BEW: Backend Web Development

In the *Back End Web Concentration *students will learn common Resourceful and RESTful patterns and
paradigms. Students will first learn to use and later to develop and release standardized
server-side applications. Beginning by fostering familiarity with syntactic language features, then
rapidly moving into building server-side web applications, APIs and advanced full stack patterns
including WebSockets, simple search, full text search, upload files, payment gateways, and more.
Advanced courses will look at deployment, web security and scaling.

## BEW 1.2: Authentication, Authorization & Advanced Queries (ACS 1220)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1_

In this course, students build on knowledge of Resourceful and RESTful patterns and dive deep into
the Node and Express ecosystems. Students learn how to manage greater scope and complexity in their
code while consistently keeping the user's experience in mind through implementing a clone of the
popular website, Reddit. The course will also cover the procedures required to authenticate and
authorize web application users.

## BEW 1.3: Server-Side Architecture & Frameworks (ACS 2230)

_Prerequisites: WEB 1.1 or BEW 1.1_

In this course, students will learn to develop and release standardized server-side applications.
Techniques include favoring convention over configuration, following a strict RESTful MVC
architecture, and emphasizing the role of automated testing. This course begins by fostering
familiarity with syntactic language features, then rapidly moves into building and deploying
server-side web applications and APIs.

## BEW 2.1: Advanced Backend Web Patterns (ACS 3210)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course students deepen their understanding of the web and implement advanced features that
add complexity and uniqueness to a serverâ€™s structure. Advanced full stack patterns covered include
WebSockets, simple search, payment gateways, chat room, uploading images and files, full text
search, and sending emails and texts.

## BEW 2.2: DevOps, Deployment & Containers (ACS 3220)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course students will learn the two main flavors of Developer Operations (DevOps), one that
uses containers and one that does not. Students will learn the leading container pattern with Docker
and explore the pros and cons of containers by implementing them. Students will also learn about
DevOps without containers using AWS and S3 tools. The course will tie both these patterns together
with generic DevOp patterns, such as environmental design, development controls, and uptime
management.

## BEW 2.3: Introduction to Web Security (ACS 3230)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

This course covers key concepts in internet data security and best practices for keeping information
safe. Students will examine historical hacks, learn how to analyze websites and web architectures
for classical security vulnerabilities, and learn how to defend against security attacks.

## BEW 2.4: Decentralized Apps and Distributed Protocols (ACS 3240)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course, students will learn how to utilize a fresh, exciting new development paradigm that
harnesses the power of peer-to-peer applications and distributed architectures. This course begins
by demystifying common jargon in the modern-day blockchain ecosystem, then establishes best
practices for developing consensus based products and services.

## BEW 2.5: Patterns & Practices in Strongly Typed Ecosystems (Go) (ACS 4210)

_Prerequisites: BEW 1.2_

In this course, students discover the value of strongly typed languages in server-side
architectures, and dive deep into performant, concurrent programming paradigms present in Go. In
studying Go, which is known for its ability to blend the expressive features of dynamic languages
(Python, JavaScript) with the performance capabilities of compiled languages (C, C++), students will
gain the syntactic diversity required in today's large-scale platform engineering pursuits.
Throughout the course, students will learn and implement the design patterns and best practices that
make Go a top choice at high-velocity startups like Lyft, Heroku, Docker, and Medium.

## BEW 2.9: Back End Web Technical Seminar (ACS 4290)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in BEW Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. The instructor will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.
