---
title: DS  Data Science & Machine Learning
slug: 'ds-data-science-machine-learning'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

### DS: Data Science & Machine Learning

In the Data Science Concentration students will learn data analysis, data visualization and
extracting statistical information into a dataset. Students will also learn how to predict a
continuous target for example stock market price based on various features in a tabular data, they
will explore methods that can be used to cluster datasets into groups. Other topics include
classification of different data resources including image, text and audio by using neural networks
and deep learning, approaches to deploy machine learning models in the cloud using Flask, Docker,
and advanced applications of machine learning and deep learning for recommender systems, natural
language processing and computer vision.

#### DS 1.1: Data Analysis & Visualization (ACS 2510)

_Prerequisites: CS 1.2, QL 1.1 (MATH 1450)_

In this course, students learn the foundational skills of data science, including data collection,
scrubbing, analysis, and visualization with modern tools and libraries. Students gain a strong
grounding in statistical concepts, utilize statistical techniques and master the science and art of
data exploration and visualization to tell stories and persuade decision makers with data-driven
insights.

#### DS 2.1: Machine Learning (ACS 3510)

_Prerequisites: DS 1.1_

This course explores the foundations of machine learning and how to apply those techniques to data
science. Key concepts include comparing accuracy measures to evaluate the quality of models,
features, and training methods and exploring supervised learning techniques including decision
trees, naive Bayes, k-nearest neighbors, linear and logistic regression, support vector machines,
and neural networks. The course will also cover unsupervised learning techniques including k-means
and hierarchical clustering, and ensemble learning methods including random forests and adaptive
boosting. Students learn the data science process and apply these techniques to train models on data
sets using industry-standard modern software libraries and tools.

#### DS 2.2: Deep Learning (ACS 3520)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.1_

This course explores the cutting edge of data science: deep learning. This course compares and
contrasts several neural network architectures for solving problems across different domains
including image classification, and face recognition. Students build and train a perceptron which is
the basic computational unit of artificial neural networks. The course will cover the limitations of
perceptrons and how non-linear activation functions enhance their power, how to combine many
perceptrons to construct feed-forward neural networks and how to program a training algorithm using
error backpropagation and gradient descent. Students will use cutting-edge software libraries and
tools including Keras and TensorFlow to construct large-scale networks with relatively little code.

#### DS 2.3: Data Science in Production (ACS 3530)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.1_

This course covers the tools and techniques commonly utilized for production machine learning in
industry. Students learn how to provide web interfaces for training machine learning or deep
learning models with Flask and Docker. Students will deploy models in the cloud through Amazon Web
Services, gather and process data from the web, and display information for consumption in advanced
web applications using Plotly and D3.js. This course also covers how to work with structured (SQL)
and unstructured (NoSQL) databases. The students use Spark and PySpark to make querying even the
largest data stores manageable.

#### DS 2.4: Advanced Topics in Data Science (ACS 4510)

_Prerequisites: DS 2.2, CS 1.3_

This course covers popular advanced machine learning and deep learning concepts including
recommendation systems (RS) and Deep RS, Bayesian networks, probabilistic graphical models, natural
language processing, LSTM neural networks, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), and advanced
computer vision (Unet). Students complete individual comprehensive projects in one of the topic
areas and present their findings in a seminar format.

#### DS 2.9: Data Science Technical Seminar (ACS 4590)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in DS Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. Instructors will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.
