---
title: MOB  Mobile Development in iOS & Swift
slug: 'mob-mobile-development-in-ios-swift'
contentType: 'TextContent'
---

### MOB: Mobile Development in iOS & Swift

Students pursuing the *Mobile Concentration *learn the theory and application of the full product
development process for mobile applications. Beginning with Swift programming language and its core
object-oriented programming principles, students then study Appleâ€™s front-end frameworks for
creating interactive applications, first creating single page and then multi-page apps. In upper
division courses, students will learn to synchronize the local and cloud data in their applications,
using the same advanced frameworks used in industry.

#### MOB 1.1: Introduction to Swift (ACS 1410)

_Prerequisites: None_

This course covers the foundations of Swift programming language. Students learn core concepts in
mobile development including variables, constants, keywords, conditionals, loops, data types, object
oriented principles. Students will practice these concepts by building games in Swift and simple iOS
applications using UIKit.

#### MOB 1.2: Introduction to iOS Development (ACS 2420)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.1_

This course covers the foundations of Swift programming language. Students learn core concepts in
mobile development including variables, constants, keywords, conditionals, loops, data types, object
oriented principles. Students will practice these concepts by building games in Swift and simple iOS
applications using UIKit. Prerequisites.

#### MOB 1.3: Dynamic iOS Applications (ACS 2430)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.2, BEW 1.2_

This course covers the programming concepts needed to create dynamic iOS applications that can
respond to user events. Key concepts include closures, callbacks and delegations. Students will
learn how these constructs are used to pass information between views and objects and common
communication patterns and roles. Students will fetch and parse information from the internet
through APIs, interact with public APIs with and without authentication, make network requests in
iOS using native Swift tools, model a networking layer in iOS, and parse a JSON network response
using native Swift tools. The course will also introduce popular networking libraries and tools such
as Alamofire & Firebase.

#### MOB 2.1: Local Persistence in iOS (ACS 3410)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3 _

This course covers how and why to persist data in mobile development. Students learn the various
options for saving data locally in iOS including Core Data, Realm, NSCoder, UserDefaults, and
Keychain. Key concepts include best practices in storing and retrieving sensitive data and how to
work with the iOS file system.

#### MOB 2.2: 2D Mobile Game Development (ACS 3420)

_Prerequisites: MOB 1.3_

This course is an introduction to gaming on mobile devices. Students will learn SpriteKit and
important core concepts like Sprites, Sprite Sheets, physics, and common gaming software patterns
like State Machine.

#### MOB 2.3: iOS Concurrency & Parallelism (ACS 3430)

_Prerequisites: MOB 2.1_

This course covers concurrency and parallelism in iOS to optimize programming performance on mobile
devices which are built with multiple cores. Students will learn the foundation of Grand Central
Dispatch and build applications that run multiple tasks simultaneously which improves speed.

#### MOB 2.4: Advanced Architectural Patterns in iOS (ACS 4410)

_Prerequisites: MOB 2.3 and BEW 1.2_

This course covers cutting edge iOS patterns like Functional Programming & Functional Reactive
Programming (FRP). Students will compare and contrast functional design patterns with OOP and other
design patterns and create complex applications using functional design patterns including Monads,
Monoids, Functors and Applicatives. Students will learn the pros and cons of functional reactive
programming, be able to identify and combine Observables, and list subjects in RxSwift.

#### MOB 2.9: Mobile Technical Seminar (ACS 4490)

_Prerequisites: 6 credits in MOB Concentration, Instructor Approval _

This is an advanced course with industry relevant topics suggested by students within a
concentration. Courses are in seminar format and will often be led by students. The Instructor will
provide support in determining topics and adding insight to discussions.
